>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. ON THE
NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, ANOTHER
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, ANOTHER
DEADLY FRIDAY, THIS TIME IN THE
WEST AFRICAN NATION OF MALI,
WHERE DOZENS WERE KILLED BY
GUNMEN WHO HELD 170 PEOPLE
HOSTAGE IN A HOTEL.
HOSTAGE IN A HOTEL. THEN,
ONE WEEK AFTER THE PARIS
THEN, ONE WEEK AFTER THE PARIS
ATTACKS WE LOOK AT HOW THE
COMMUNITY AND POLICE IN THE
FRENCH CAPITAL ARE RECOVERING.
>> Sreenivasan: A NIGHT OF
>> Sreenivasan: A NIGHT OF >>
Woodruff: AND MARK SHIELDS
>> Woodruff: AND MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE,
TO ANALYZE THIS FULL WEEK OF
TO ANALYZE THIS
FULL WEEK OF NEWS.
NEWS. PLUS, A HIP
HOP MUSICAL, THAT'S
PLUS, A HIP HOP MUSICAL,
THAT'S ALSO A HISTORY LESSON.
ALSO A HISTORY LESSON. WE
TALK WITH THE CREATOR OF THE
WE TALK WITH THE CREATOR OF THE
BROADWAY HIT PLAY "HAMILTON."
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE SIEGE TODAY IN
THE CAPITAL CITY OF MALI LASTED
ALL DAY BEFORE ENDING THIS
ALL DAY BEFORE
ENDING THIS EVENING.
EVENING. ISLAMIST
GUNMEN BURST INTO A
ISLAMIST GUNMEN BURST INTO A
HOTEL AND SEIZED UP TO 170
HOSTAGES, MANY OF THEM
HOSTAGES, MANY OF
THEM FOREIGNERS.
FOREIGNERS. IN THE END,
SCORES OF HOSTAGES
IN THE END, SCORES OF HOSTAGES
WERE RESCUED OR ESCAPED, BUT
ESTIMATES OF THE DEAD RANGED
FROM 19 TO AT LEAST 27, PLUS TWO
FROM 19 TO AT LEAST 27,
PLUS TWO ATTACKERS.
ATTACKERS. THE STATE
DEPARTMENT SAID ONE
THE STATE DEPARTMENT SAID ONE
AMERICAN WAS AMONG THOSE KILLED.
AMERICAN WAS AMONG THOSE
KILLED. THE ATTACK ON
THE ATTACK ON THE ATTACK
ON THE RADISSON BLU
THE ATTACK ON THE RADISSON
BLU BROUGHT SECURITY FORCES
BROUGHT SECURITY FORCES ON
THE RUN, EARLY THIS MORNING.
ON THE RUN, EARLY THIS MORNING.
MALI'S DEFENSE MINISTRY SAID
EXTREMISTS ARMED WITH GUNS AND
EXTREMISTS ARMED WITH
GUNS AND GREAS GUESTS
GREAS GUESTS WERE
BEGINNING THEIR DAY.
WERE BEGINNING THEIR DAY. >> (
translated): AT THIS
>> (translated): AT
THIS MOMENT, THIS MORNING AROUND
MOMENT, THIS MORNING AROUND
7:30, INDIVIDUALS NOT YET
IDENTIFIED, ABOUT THREE OR FOUR
WE BELIEVE SO FAR, ATTACKED THE
WE BELIEVE SO FAR, ATTACKED
THE RADISSON BLU HOTEL.
RADISSON BLU HOTEL.
SADLY THERE ARE DEATHS.
PEOPLE MUST REMAIN CALM.
PEOPLE MUST REMAIN CALM. >>
Woodruff: BY SOME ACCOUNTS,
>> Woodruff: BY SOME ACCOUNTS,
THE ATTACKERS CAR-JACKED A
DIPLOMATIC VEHICLE, DROVE UP TO
THE HOTEL, AND STORMED INSIDE.
WITNESSES SAID THEY SHOUTED
ISLAMIST SLOGANS AND WENT ROOM
BY ROOM ASKING GUESTS IF THEY
COULD RECITE VERSES OF THE
COULD RECITE VERSES
OF THE KORAN.
KORAN. THOSE WHO
COULD WERE LET GO.
THOSE WHO COULD WERE LET GO.
EARLY ON, THE OWNER OF THE HOTEL
SAID THE ASSAILANTS LOCKED IN AS
SAID THE ASSAILANTS LOCKED
IN AS MANY AS 140 GUESTS AND
MANY AS 140 GUESTS
AND 30 EMPLOYEES.
30 EMPLOYEES. HOURS
LATER, MALIAN SPECIAL
HOURS LATER, MALIAN SPECIAL
FORCES STORMED THE HOTEL
THEMSELVES, FREEING HOSTAGES ONE
THEMSELVES, FREEING HOSTAGES
ONE FLOOR AT A TIME.
FLOOR AT A TIME. >> (
translated): THE
SOLDIERS
>> (translated): THE
SOLDIERS WERE VERY PROFESSIONAL,
THEY
WERE VERY PROFESSIONAL,
THEY TOOK GOOD CARE OF US.
TOOK GOOD CARE OF US. THEY
CAME TO US, THEY KNOCKED,
THEY CAME TO US, THEY KNOCKED,
THEY SAID: "IT'S THE SECURITY
FORCES" AND THEN I LOOKED.
FORCES" AND THEN I
LOOKED. IT WAS THEM.
IT WAS THEM. I LEFT THE ROOM.
I LEFT THE ROOM. THEY
CLEARED THE WHOLE FLOOR.
THEY CLEARED THE WHOLE FLOOR. >>
(translated): I HEARD
>> (translated): I
HEARD GUNSHOTS VERY EARLY IN THE
GUNSHOTS VERY EARLY
IN THE MORNING.
MORNING. I THOUGHT
IT WAS FIRECRACKERS
I THOUGHT IT WAS FIRECRACKERS
AND DIDN'T REALIZE IT WAS A
AND DIDN'T REALIZE IT WAS
A HOSTAGE SITUATION.
HOSTAGE SITUATION. AT ONE
POINT, THE MALIAN FORCES
AT ONE POINT, THE MALIAN
FORCES CAME TO GET US.
CAME TO GET US. THEY
KNOCKED ON OUR DOORS AND
THEY KNOCKED ON OUR DOORS AND
EVACUATED US IN SMALL GROUPS.
THANK GOD WE'RE SAFE.
THANK GOD WE'RE SAFE. >>
Woodruff: AT LEAST SIX
>> Woodruff: AT LEAST SIX
AMERICANS WERE EVACUATED DURING
THE OPERATION, WITH U.S. AND
FRENCH SPECIAL FORCES ASSISTING
FRENCH SPECIAL FORCES
ASSISTING THE MALIANS.
THE MALIANS. HOURS AFTER
IT BEGAN, A JIHADIST
HOURS AFTER IT BEGAN, A JIHADIST
GROUP PREVIOUSLY AFFILATED WITH
AL-QAEDA-- "AL-MOURABITOUNES"--
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THE ATTACK.
ATTACK. IN PARIS,
FRENCH PRESIDENT
IN PARIS, FRENCH PRESIDENT
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE VOWED TO HELP
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE VOWED TO
HELP THE FORMER FRENCH COLONY.
THE FORMER FRENCH COLONY. >> (
translated): TERRORISTS
>> (translated):
TERRORISTS ENTERED A HOTEL IN
BAMAKO AND
ENTERED A HOTEL IN BAMAKO
AND HAVE TAKEN HOSTAGES.
HAVE TAKEN HOSTAGES. ONCE
AGAIN, TERRORISTS WANT TO
ONCE AGAIN, TERRORISTS WANT TO
MAKE THEIR BARBARIC PRESENCE
FELT EVERYWHERE, WHERE THEY CAN
KILL, WHERE THEY CAN MASSACRE.
SO WE SHOULD ONCE AGAIN SHOW OUR
SOLIDARITY WITH OUR ALLY MALI.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN MALI,
OFFICIALS ANNOUNCED THIS EVENING
THAT THE SIEGE OF THE RADISSON
BLU HAD FINALLY ENDED.
BLU HAD FINALLY ENDED. AND
FOR MORE ON THE ATTACK IN
AND FOR MORE ON THE ATTACK
IN MALI, WE TURN TO RETIRED
MALI, WE TURN TO RETIRED
LT. COL. RUDOLPH ATALLAH.
HE SERVED AS AFRICA
COUNTERTERRORISM DIRECTOR AT THE
COUNTERTERRORISM DIRECTOR
AT THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT. HE'S
CURRENTLY A SENIOR FELLOW
HE'S CURRENTLY A SENIOR FELLOW
AT THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL, A
AT THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL,
A NON-PROFIT THINK TANK.
NON-PROFIT THINK TANK. HE
IS ALSO CHIEF EXECUTIVE
HE IS ALSO CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER OF A SECURITY CONSULTING
OFFICER OF A SECURITY
CONSULTING FIRM.
FIRM. RUDOLPH ATALLAH,
WELCOME TO THE
RUDOLPH ATALLAH, WELCOME
TO THE PROGRAM.
PROGRAM. BASED ON WHAT
YOU'VE LEARNED SO
BASED ON WHAT YOU'VE LEARNED SO
FAR, WHO DO YOU THINK WAS BEHIND
FAR, WHO DO YOU THINK
WAS BEHIND THIS?
THIS? >> WELL, IT'S
STILL UNCLEAR.
>> WELL, IT'S STILL UNCLEAR.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE TIME TO
REALLY REVEAL THAT, BUT SOME
NEWS AGENCIES ARE CLAIMING IT'S
NEWS AGENCIES ARE CLAIMING
IT'S AC MOOD MACTUN.
AC MOOD MACTUN. >>
Woodruff: WHO IS THIS
>> Woodruff: WHO IS THIS GROUP?
GROUP? CONNECTED TO AL QUAIDA?
CONNECTED TO AL QUAIDA? >>
IT'S AN OFFSHOOT OF AL QUAIDA
>> IT'S AN OFFSHOOT OF AL QUAIDA
MOKHTAR BELMOKHTAR HAS BEEN
TRYING TO LINK FROM AL QUAIDA
CENTRAL AND BREAK AWAY AND TRY
CENTRAL AND BREAK AWAY
AND TRY TO RUN THINGS.
TO RUN THINGS. IN AUGUST
THE COUNCIL MADE HIM
IN AUGUST THE COUNCIL MADE HIM
THE THE AMIR OF THE GROUP.
THE THE AMIR OF THE GROUP. AND
THEN SHORTLY AFTER A COUPLE
AND THEN SHORTLY AFTER A
COUPLE OF DAYS LATER THE GROUP
OF DAYS LATER THE GROUP
REBRANDED ITSELF TO AL QUAIDA OF
REBRANDED ITSELF TO
AL QUAIDA OF JIHAD.
JIHAD. >> Reporter: WHJIHAD.
>> Reporter: WHJIHAD. >>
Woodruff: WHY WOULD HE GET
>> Woodruff: WHY WOULD HE GET
CLOSER TO AL QUAIDA CENTRAL.
>> BECAUSE HE DOESN'T BELIEVE
AL QUAIDA HAS BEEN DOING A GOOD
JOB IN GOING AFTER KEY TARGETS.
THIS WAS THE MAN RESPONSIBLE FOR
THIS WAS THE MAN RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE ATTACK IN ALGERIA
THE ATTACK IN ALGERIA JANUARY
2013 ON THE GAS PLANTS
JANUARY 2013 ON THE GAS PLANTS
IN WHICH WE SAW 699 PEOPLE
RELEASED AND 730 WESTERN
HOSTAGES KILLED.
HOSTAGES KILLED. THIS
ATTACK LOOKS EERILY SIMILAR
THIS ATTACK LOOKS EERILY SIMILAR
IN WHICH THEY ASK PEOPLE TO
RECITE PART OF THE QUR'AN.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S THE
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S
THE MOTIVATION?
MOTIVATION? WHAT DOES
THIS GROUP WANT?
WHAT DOES THIS GROUP WANT?
>> IN ONE PART, THIS GROUP
INITIALLY WAS TRYING TO BRING
PEOPLE TO THEMSELVES BECAUSE
THEY'RE FEARFUL THAT MANY OF
TEASE YOUNG JIHADYS -- THESE
YOUNG JIHADYS WOULD BRANCH AWAY
AND GO TO I.S.I.S. OR DAESH, SO
AND GO TO I.S.I.S. OR DAESH,
SO THEY ME A PUSH FOR THAT AND
THEY ME A PUSH FOR THAT AND
ALSO WANT TO SHOW THEMSELVES
CAPABLE OF, YOU KNOW,
REINSTATING WHAT MALI LOST IN
REINSTATING WHAT MALI
LOST IN THE NORTH.
THE NORTH. REMEMBER
NORTHERN MALI WAS UNDER
REMEMBER NORTHERN MALI WAS UNDER
ISLAMMIST RULE UNTIL THE FRENCH
INTERVENED IN 2013 SO THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR THAT STATE.
LOOKING FOR THAT STATE. >>
Woodruff: A COMP THE TIGS
>> Woodruff: A COMP THE TIGS
WITH I.S.I.S. -- A COMPETITION
WITH I.S.I.S. GOING ON HERE?
>> IT'S YET TO BE DETERMINED.
OF COURSE, BOTH GROUPS ARE
OPPOSITE OF EACH OTHER IN TERMS
OF -- WELL, IN PART, SOME OF THE
IDEOLOGY IS DIFFERENT, BUT THEIR
MOTIVATION IS -- WHAT THEY WANT
IS SIMILAR, ESSENTIALLY HAVING
IS SIMILAR, ESSENTIALLY
HAVING THE CALIPHATE.
THE CALIPHATE. BUT
THERE MAY BE SOME
BUT THERE MAY BE SOME
COMPETITION HAPPENING THERE, BUT
COMPETITION HAPPENING THERE,
BUT IT'S YET TO BE DETERMINED.
IT'S YET TO BE DETERMINED.
>> Woodruff: THEY CERTAINLY
HAVE GOTTEN OUR ATTENTION IN A
VAIR BAD WAY TODAY, RUDOLPH
ATALLAH, THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL,
ATALLAH, THE ATLANTIC
COUNCIL, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. >> Woodruff:
IN THE DAY'S OTHER
>> Woodruff: IN THE DAY'S OTHER
NEWS: PARIS MARKED ONE WEEK
SINCE THE ISLAMIC STATE ATTACKS
THAT RAVAGED THE CITY, AS THE
THAT RAVAGED THE CITY, AS
THE DEATH TOLL ROSE TO 130.
DEATH TOLL ROSE TO 130. AT
THE SAME TIME, INVESTIGATORS
AT THE SAME TIME, INVESTIGATORS
WORKED TO FIGURE OUT WHEN AND
HOW THE RINGLEADER GAINED
RE-ENTRY INTO FRANCE, AND FRENCH
LAWMAKERS MOVED TO EXTEND A
STATE OF EMERGENCY GIVING POLICE
STATE OF EMERGENCY GIVING
POLICE ADDITIONAL POWERS.
ADDITIONAL POWERS. WE'LL
HAVE THE STORY IN FULL,
WE'LL HAVE THE STORY IN FULL,
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY. IN
RUSSIA, MEANWHILE, LAW-MAKERS
IN RUSSIA, MEANWHILE, LAW-MAKERS
TODAY BACKED A SWEEPING OVERHAUL
TODAY BACKED A SWEEPING
OVERHAUL OF NATIONAL SECURITY.
OF NATIONAL SECURITY. THIS
FOLLOWS THE PARIS AACKSTT
THIS FOLLOWS THE PARIS AACKSTT
AND LAST MONTH'S BOMBING OF A
RUSSIAN AIRLINER OVER EGYPT.
TODAY, IN MOSCOW, BOTH CHAMBERS
OF PARLIAMENT MET IN A RARE
SESSION, TO CALL FOR TOUGHER
PENALTIES FOR TERRORISTS AND
PENALTIES FOR TERRORISTS
AND MORE POWER FOR POLICE.
MORE POWER FOR POLICE. >> (
translated): THESE DAYS,
>> (translated): THESE
DAYS, THE FEDERATION COUNCIL
RECEIVES
THE FEDERATION COUNCIL RECEIVES
A LOT OF REQUESTS FROM CITIZENS,
PUBLIC ORGANIZATIONS, EXPERTS,
AND WHAT THEY HAVE IN COMMON IS
AND WHAT THEY HAVE IN COMMON
IS CONCERN ABOUT THE NEED TO
CONCERN ABOUT THE NEED TO
INCREASE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM.
I THINK THAT ADDITIONAL
MEASURES, INCLUDING LEGISLATIVE
ONES, ARE DEFINITELY NEEDED.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, THE
RUSSIANS CLAIMED TODAY THEIR AIR
STRIKES HAVE DESTROYED A NUMBER
OF ISLAMIC STATE OIL FACILITIES
IN SYRIA IN RECENT DAYS.
OFFICIAL VIDEO SHOWED GROUND
CREWS AT AN AIR BASE IN RUSSIA,
WRITING THE WORDS "FOR PARIS!"
AND "FOR OUR GUYS!" ON BOMBS.
THEY WERE BEING ATTACHED TO
PLANES HEADING OUT ON MISSIONS
PLANES HEADING OUT ON
MISSIONS TO SYRIA.
TO SYRIA. THOUSANDS
OF REFUGEES WERE IN
THOUSANDS OF REFUGEES WERE IN
LIMBO TODAY AFTER FOUR BALKAN
STATES BEGIN TURNING AWAY
ECONOMIC MIGRANTS AND ACCEPTING
ONLY THOSE FLEEING WAR.
ONLY THOSE FLEEING WAR. FOR
NOW, THAT MEANS MACEDONIA,
FOR NOW, THAT MEANS MACEDONIA,
SERBIA, CROATIA AND SLOVENIA ARE
ALLOWING ONLY SYRIANS, AFGHANS
AND IRAQIS TO CROSS THEIR
AND IRAQIS TO CROSS
THEIR BORDERS.
BORDERS. AT THE
GREEK-MACEDONIAN BORDER
AT THE GREEK-MACEDONIAN BORDER
TODAY, OTHER MIGRANTS WAVED
DOCUMENTS AT POLICE HOLDING THEM
DOCUMENTS AT POLICE
HOLDING THEM BACK.
BACK. THOSE WHO'VE LEFT IRAN AND
THOSE WHO'VE LEFT IRAN AND
BANGLADESH HELD UP SIGNS BEGGING
BANGLADESH HELD UP SIGNS
BEGGING TO BE LET IN.
TO BE LET IN. PRESIDENT
OBAMA ARRIVED IN
PRESIDENT OBAMA ARRIVED IN
MALAYSIA TODAY, AND URGED YOUNG
PEOPLE IN THE LARGELY MUSLIM
NATION TO REJECT EXTREMISM.
HE SPOKE AT A TOWN-HALL WITH
COLLEGE-AGED STUDENTS, AND
STRESSED THEIR ROLE IN COMBATING
TERROR, IN THE WAKE OF THE PARIS
TERROR, IN THE WAKE OF
THE PARIS KILLINGS.
KILLINGS. >> WHEN
YOU THINK ABOUT THE
>> WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT THE
TERRIBLE VISION OF THOSE WHO
CARRIED OUT THOSE ATTACKS, AND
YOU CONTRAST THAT WITH THE YOUNG
PEOPLE WHO ARE REPRESENTED HERE,
YOU CAN SET AN EXAMPLE, NOT JUST
YOU CAN SET AN EXAMPLE, NOT
JUST TO STAND UP TO VIOLENT
TO STAND UP TO VIOLENT
EXTREMISM, BUT TO BUILD
INTER-FAITH DIALOGUE, PROMOTE
TOLERANCE, AND TO COMBINE AN
APPRECIATION OF YOUR OWN CULTURE
AND TRADITIONS WITH THE MODERN
AND TRADITIONS WITH
THE MODERN WORLD.
WORLD. >> Woodruff:
THE FIGHT AGAINST
>> Woodruff: THE FIGHT AGAINST
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS WILL
TAKE CENTER STAGE AS THE
PRESIDENT ATTENDS A SOUTHEAST
ASIAN SUMMIT THIS WEEKEND.
ACCUSED SPY JONATHAN POLLARD WAS
RELEASED FROM A U.S. FEDERAL
PRISON TODAY, AFTER SERVING 30
YEARS FOR SPYING FOR ISRAEL.
IT WAS ONE OF THE HIGHEST-
PROFILE ESPIONAGE CASES IN
AMERICAN HISTORY, AND AN ONGOING
IRRITANT IN U.S.-ISRAELI
IRRITANT IN
U.S.-ISRAELI RELATIONS.
RELATIONS. CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET
WARNER HAS THE STORY.
HAS THE STORY. >> Warner:
POLLARD ARRIVED IN
>> Warner: POLLARD ARRIVED IN
NEW YORK CITY THIS MORNING AFTER
BEING DRIVEN FROM A FEDERAL
PRISON IN NORTH CAROLINA EARLIER
AS A NAVAL INTELLIGENCE OFFICER
IN THE 1980'S, HE PASSED
SUITCASES OF TOP SECRET
DOCUMENTS TO AN ISRAELI COLONEL.
THEY CONTAINED CLASSIFIED
INTELLIGENCE ABOUT ARAB
GOVERNMENTS, AND SOVIET ARM
GOVERNMENTS, AND
SOVIET ARM SHIPMENTS.
SHIPMENTS. FIRST ARRESTED
IN 1985, HE PLED
FIRST ARRESTED IN 1985, HE PLED
GUILTY TO SPYING FOR ISRAEL AND
WAS SENTENCED TO LIFE IN PRISON
WAS SENTENCED TO LIFE
IN PRISON IN 1987.
IN 1987. SINCE THEN,
HIS CASE HAS BEEN A
SINCE THEN, HIS CASE HAS BEEN
A SOURCE OF TENSION BETWEEN
SOURCE OF TENSION BETWEEN
ISRAELI AND U.S.
ADMINISTRATIONS.
ADMINISTRATIONS. TODAY
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
TODAY ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
ISRAELI BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
CELEBRATED HIS PAROLE AFTER A
LONG CAMPAIGN FOR HIS RELEASE
>> THE PEOPLE OF ISRAEL WELCOME
THE RELEASE OF JONATHAN POLLARD.
AS SOMEONE WHO RAISED HIS CASE
BEFORE SUCCESSIVE US PRESIDENTS
MANY TIMES, I LONGED FOR THIS
MANY TIMES, I LONGED
FOR THIS DAY.
DAY. AND NOW AFTER
THREE LONG AND
AND NOW AFTER THREE LONG AND
DIFFICULT DECADES, JONATHAN HAS
I WISH HIM ON THIS FIRST SABBATH
THAT HE'S GOING TO SPEND WITH
>> Warner: HIS WIFE, ESTHER,
SPOKE WHEN HIS PAROLE WAS FIRST
SPOKE WHEN HIS PAROLE
WAS FIRST ANNOUNCED.
ANNOUNCED. >> I'M
RELIEVED AND I'M HAPPY
>> I'M RELIEVED AND I'M HAPPY
THAT OUR ORDEAL IS FINALLY
COMING TO AN END.
COMING TO AN END. >>
Warner: POLLARD MADE NO
>> Warner: POLLARD MADE
NO STATEMENTS TODAY.
STATEMENTS TODAY. UNDER
THE TERMS OF HIS PAROLE,
UNDER THE TERMS OF HIS PAROLE,
HE MUST STAY IN THE U.S.
HE MUST STAY IN THE U.S. FOR
FIVE YEARS WHILE WEARING A
FOR FIVE YEARS WHILE WEARING A
DIGITAL GPS TRACKING DEVICE.
DIGITAL GPS TRACKING DEVICE. HIS
LAWYERS ARE ASKING A FEDERAL
HIS LAWYERS ARE ASKING A
FEDERAL JUDGE TO OVERTURN THIS
JUDGE TO OVERTURN THIS
REQUIREMENT AND LET HIM MOVE TO
REQUIREMENT AND LET HIM MOVE
TO ISRAEL, WHICH GRANTED HIM
ISRAEL, WHICH GRANTED HIM
CITIZENSHIP IN 1995.
CITIZENSHIP IN 1995. POLLARD
WILL WORK AT A FINANCE
POLLARD WILL WORK AT A
FINANCE FIRM IN NEW YORK.
FIRM IN NEW YORK. >>
Woodruff: A MAN FROM FLORIDA
>> Woodruff: A MAN FROM FLORIDA
WHO LANDED A MINI-HELICOPTER, A
GYROCOPTER, ON THE U.S. CAPITOL
LAWN, PLEADED GUILTY IN FEDERAL
LAWN, PLEADED GUILTY IN
FEDERAL COURT TOY.DA
COURT TOY.DA DOUGLAS
HUGHES ADMITTED TO
DOUGLAS HUGHES ADMITTED TO
OPERATING THE ONE-MAN CRAFT
OPERATING THE ONE-MAN
CRAFT WITHOUT A LICENSE.
WITHOUT A LICENSE. LAST
APRIL, HE BUZZED THROUGH
LAST APRIL, HE BUZZED THROUGH
RESTRICTED AIRSPACE, SAYING HE
WANTED TO DRAW ATTENTION TO BIG
WANTED TO DRAW ATTENTION
TO BIG MONEY IN POLITICS.
MONEY IN POLITICS. HUGHES
COULD GET UP TO TEN
HUGHES COULD GET UP TO
TEN MONTHS IN PRISON.
MONTHS IN PRISON. PRINCETON
UNIVERSITY HAS AGREED
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY HAS AGREED
TO CONSIDER REMOVING THE NAME OF
WOODROW WILSON, ITS ALUMNUS AND
FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, FROM
CAMPUS BUILDINGS AND PROGRAMS.
THAT CAME AFTER BLACK AND WHITE
STUDENTS STAGED A 32-HOUR SIT-IN
TO PROTEST WILSON'S SUPPORT OF
TO PROTEST WILSON'S SUPPORT
OF RACIAL SEGREGATION.
RACIAL SEGREGATION.
WILSON WAS PRESIDENT OF
PRINCETON FROM 1902 TO 1910,
BEFORE BEING ELECTED GOVERNOR OF
NEW JERSEY AND THEN, PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES.
OF THE UNITED STATES. AND,
WALL STREET FINISHED THE
AND, WALL STREET FINISHED
THE WEEK ON A HIGH NOTE.
WEEK ON A HIGH NOTE. THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 91 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
GAINED 91 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 17,824.
17,824. THE NASDAQ
ROSE 31 POINTS, AND
THE NASDAQ ROSE 31 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED 8.
THE S&P 500 ADDED 8. FOR THE
WEEK, ALL THREE INDEXES
FOR THE WEEK, ALL THREE
INDEXES WERE UP WELL OVER 3%.
WERE UP WELL OVER 3%. STILL
TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
PARIS, ONE WEEK AFTER THE DEADLY
TERROR ATTACKS; THE WOMEN OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE; MARK SHIELDS AND
ISLAMIC STATE; MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ON CAMPAIGN
DAVID BROOKS ON CAMPAIGN
RHETORIC AND REFUGEES, AND MUCH
RHETORIC AND REFUGEES,
AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN ONE
WEEK SINCE PARIS WAS STRUCK BY
SINCE PARIS WAS
STRUCK BY TRAGEDY.
TRAGEDY. FRANCE
MOVED TO GIVE LAW
FRANCE MOVED TO GIVE LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS MORE POWER
TO PREVENT FUTURE ATTACKS, AS
TO PREVENT FUTURE ATTACKS,
AS ITS CITIZENS TRY TO MOVE
ITS CITIZENS TRY
TO MOVE FORWARD.
FORWARD. HARI
SREENIVASAN HAS BEEN IN
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS BEEN IN
PARIS ALL WEEK, AND HAS THE
PARIS ALL WEEK, AND
HAS THE STORY.
STORY. >> Sreenivasan:
THE SHAKEN "CITY
>> Sreenivasan: THE SHAKEN "CITY
OF LIGHT" RETURNED TO LIFE
TONIGHT-- IF ONLY TEMPORARILY.
THE SOUND OF MUSIC AND FLICKER
OF CANDLES MARKED THE MOMENT THE
STRING OF DEADLY ATTACKS BEGAN
STRING OF DEADLY ATTACKS
BEGAN ONE WEEK AGO.
ONE WEEK AGO. IT WAS
PART OF A CAMPAIGN BY
IT WAS PART OF A CAMPAIGN
BY CULTURAL FIGURES URGING
CULTURAL FIGURES URGING
PARISIANS TO MAKE "NOISE AND
PARISIANS TO MAKE "NOISE
AND LIGHT"-- AND SHOW THE
LIGHT"-- AND SHOW THE FRENCH
SPIRIT CANNOT BE DIMMED
FRENCH SPIRIT CANNOT
BE DIMMED BY TERROR.
BY TERROR. HOURS
EARLIER, A COLD RAIN
HOURS EARLIER, A COLD RAIN
SOAKED MEMORIALS ACROSS THE
FRENCH CAPITAL, BUT MOURNERS
FRENCH CAPITAL, BUT
MOURNERS WERE UNDETERRED.
WERE UNDETERRED. >> (
translated): IT WAS
>> (translated): IT WAS
IMPORTANT FOR ME TO COME.
IT'S REALLY MOVING TO SEE ALL
IT'S REALLY MOVING TO
SEE ALL THESE FLOWERS.
THESE FLOWERS. I
THINK IT'S VERY SAD.
I THINK IT'S VERY SAD.
IT'S BEEN A WEEK SINCE THE
ATTACKS AND IT FEELS LIKE IT WAS
ATTACKS AND IT FEELS LIKE
IT WAS JUST YESTERDAY.
JUST YESTERDAY. IT'S
IMPOSSIBLE TO GET RID OF
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO GET RID OF
THIS SADNESS THAT WE FEEL.
THIS SADNESS THAT WE FEEL. >> (
translated): I THINK A
LOT
>> (translated): I
THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE STILL
SCARED.
OF PEOPLE ARE STILL SCARED.
WE HAVE TO BE CAREFUL NOT TO
FALL INTO NASTY HATRED, AS CAN
FALL INTO NASTY HATRED,
AS CAN HAPPEN.
HAPPEN. >> Sreenivasan:
THERE WAS ONE
>> Sreenivasan: THERE WAS ONE
MORE DEATH TO MOURN TODAY, AS
ANOTHER VICTIM DIED OF WOUNDS--
RAISING THE DEATH TOLL TO 130.
MORE THAN 350 OTHERS WERE
WOUNDED IN LAST FRIDAY'S
WOUNDED IN LAST
FRIDAY'S VIOLENCE.
VIOLENCE. AUTHORITIES
ALSO REPORTED A
AUTHORITIES ALSO REPORTED A
THIRD BODY WAS DISCOVERED
OVERNIGHT AT THE SE OFIT THE
SAINT-DENIS APARTMENT THAT
POLICE RAIDED WEDNESDAY.
SECURITY OFFICIALS NOW SAY HE'D
THAT RAID KILLED THE ALLEGED
MASTERMIND OF THE ATTACKS,
ABDELHAMID ABAAOUD.
HE'D BEEN SPOTTED ON
SURVEILLANCE VIDEO IN THE PARIS
SUBWAY SHORTLY AFTER THE
SHOOTINGS AND BOMBINGS BEGAN.
IN ALL, FRENCH POLICE HAVE
CARRIED OUT NEARLY 800 RAIDS
SINCE THEN, AND ARRESTED 90
SINCE THEN, AND
ARRESTED 90 PEOPLE.
PEOPLE. AND, THE
GOVERNMENT IS MOVING TO
AND, THE GOVERNMENT IS MOVING
TO GIVE THE POLICE MORE POWER.
GIVE THE POLICE MORE POWER.
TODAY THE FRENCH SENATE APPROVED
THE REQUEST TO EXTEND THE STATE
OF EMERGENCY BY ANOTHER 90 DAYS.
THAT MEANS AMONG OTHER THINGS,
POLICE CAN GET PERMISSION FROM
THE INTERIOR MINISTRY TO RAID A
THE INTERIOR MINISTRY TO
RAID A SUSPECT'S HOME.
SUSPECT'S HOME. THEY
DON'T HAVE TO GET
THEY DON'T HAVE TO GET
PERMISSION FROM A CRIMINAL
PERMISSION FROM A
CRIMINAL COURT.
COURT. THIS IS CAUSING A TENSION
THIS IS CAUSING A TENSION
BETWEEN POLICE POWERS AND CIVIL
BETWEEN POLICE POWERS
AND CIVIL LIBERTIES.
>> (translated): THE
RESULTS SO FAR HAVE ALLOWED US
TO FIND
SO FAR HAVE ALLOWED US TO
FIND HUNDREDS OF WEAPONS.
HUNDREDS OF WEAPONS. >>
Sreenivasan: JEROME BONNET IS
>> Sreenivasan: JEROME BONNET
IS THE SPOKESMAN FOR THE FRENCH
THE SPOKESMAN FOR THE
FRENCH NATIONAL POLICE.
NATIONAL POLICE. HE SAYS
THE SPEED IS NECESSARY
HE SAYS THE SPEED IS NECESSARY
IN TIMES LIKE THESE AND THAT THE
IN TIMES LIKE THESE AND THAT
THE MEASURES ARE TEMPORARY.
MEASURES ARE TEMPORARY.
IS THIS THE NEW NORMAL?
IS THIS THE NEW NORMAL? >>
THE PRINCIPLE OF STATE OF
>> THE PRINCIPLE OF STATE OF
EMERGENCY IS THAT IT IS SUPPOSED
EMERGENCY IS THAT IT IS
SUPPOSED TO BE TEMPORARY.
TO BE TEMPORARY. WE'LL
QUIT THIS STATE OF
WE'LL QUIT THIS STATE OF
EMERGENCY WHEN THE LEVEL OF
EMERGENCY WHEN THE LEVEL
OF THREAT GOES DOWN.
THREAT GOES DOWN. >>
Sreenivasan: BUT ALREADY SOME
>> Sreenivasan: BUT ALREADY SOME
ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THE LONG
TERM IMPACTS OF THE NEW POLICE
TERM IMPACTS OF THE
NEW POLICE POWERS.
POWERS. >> (translated
): EVEN IF WE'RE
>> (translated): EVEN
IF WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A DEEP
LEVEL OF
TALKING ABOUT A DEEP LEVEL OF
PAIN THAT FRENCH PEOPLE ARE
EXPERIENCING, WE'RE STILL
WONDERING HOW WE CAN RESPECT
CITIZEN'S RIGHTS IF THIS
SITUATION CONTINUES.
SITUATION CONTINUES. >>
Sreenivasan: FLORIAN BORG IS
>> Sreenivasan: FLORIAN BORG
IS THE PRESIDENT OF A UNION
THE PRESIDENT OF A UNION
REPRESENTING 1,000 CIVIL AND
REPRESENTING 1,000 CIVIL
AND CRIMINAL LAWYERS.
CRIMINAL LAWYERS. HE
THINKS THIS IS EXECUTIVE
HE THINKS THIS IS EXECUTIVE
OVERREACH, AND UNDERCUTS THE
JUDICIAL BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT.
>> (translated): IN A
DEMOCRACY, FOR IT TO BE CALM AND
TO LIVE IN FREEDOM, WE NEED A
JUSTICE SYSTEM THAT PUNISHES,
THAT CORRECTS BEHAVIOR AND
PREVENTS ALL KINDS OF CRIME--
INCLUDING TERRORISM.
INCLUDING TERRORISM. AND
NOW, THIS IS NOT THE
AND NOW, THIS IS NOT THE
IMPRESSION WE HAVE.
IMPRESSION WE HAVE. >>
Sreenivasan: THE ATTACKS HAVE
>> Sreenivasan: THE ATTACKS HAVE
ALSO PUT NEW FOCUS ON MIGRANTS
ALSO PUT NEW FOCUS ON
MIGRANTS ENTERING EUROPE.
ENTERING EUROPE. FRENCH
PROSECUTORS SAID TODAY
FRENCH PROSECUTORS SAID TODAY
THEY'VE NOW DETERMINED THAT TWO
OF THE ATTACKERS ARRIVED IN
GREECE LAST MONTH, WITH OTHER
GREECE LAST MONTH,
WITH OTHER MIGRANTS.
MIGRANTS. AND MUSLIMS
IN FRANCE SAY
AND MUSLIMS IN FRANCE SAY
THEY'RE FEELING THE PRESSURE.
TODAY, THOSE ATTENDING FRIDAY
PRAYERS AT PARIS' GRAND MOSQUE
WERE CAREFULLY SCREENED BEFORE
WERE CAREFULLY SCREENED
BEFORE ENTERING.
ENTERING. SOME SAID THEY'VE BEEN
SOME SAID THEY'VE BEEN
STIGMATIZED BY ISLAMIC STATE
STIGMATIZED BY ISLAMIC
STATE ACTIONS.
ACTIONS. >> (translated
): PEOPLE MAKE
>> (translated): PEOPLE
MAKE GENERALIZATIONS BASED ON
WHAT
GENERALIZATIONS BASED ON WHAT
HAPPENED, BASED ON THE ACTS
COMMITTED BY A FEW INDIVIDUALS,
WHICH WERE NOT AT ALL COMMITTED
IN THE NAME OF ISLAM.
IN THE NAME OF ISLAM. EVEN
IF THEY YELLED WORDS THAT
EVEN IF THEY YELLED WORDS THAT
COULD MISLEAD PEOPLE, THEY ACTED
COULD MISLEAD PEOPLE, THEY
ACTED OF THEIR OWN ACCORD.
OF THEIR OWN ACCORD. >>
Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE IN
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE
IN BRUSSELS, EUROPEAN UNION
BRUSSELS, EUROPEAN UNION
MINISTERS MET IN EMERGENCY
SESSION AND PLEDGED SOLIDARITY
WITH FRANCE IN ADDRESSING THE
GROWING THREAT OF VIOLENT
GROWING THREAT OF
VIOLENT EXTREMISM.
EXTREMISM. THEY AGREED
TO NEW MEASURES
THEY AGREED TO NEW MEASURES
TIGHTENING BORDER CHECKS,
SURVEILLANCE, AND GUN CONTROL,
AFTER AN APPEAL BY FRANCE'S
INTERIOR MINISTER.
INTERIOR MINISTER. >>
(translated): THE
>> (translated): THE
STRENGTHENING OF EXTERNAL BORDER
CONTROLS, PARTICULARLY IN THE
CONTROLS, PARTICULARLY IN
THE LIGHT OF THE HEIGHTENED
LIGHT OF THE HEIGHTENED
TERRORIST THREAT, IS
INDISPENSABLE FOR THE SECURITY
OF EUROPEAN CITIZENS.
OF EUROPEAN CITIZENS. WE
HAVE COME TOGETHER TODAY TO
WE HAVE COME TOGETHER TODAY TO
ACT AND WE NEED CONCRETE ACTION.
WE SHOULD PROCEED QUICKLY AND
WE SHOULD PROCEED
QUICKLY AND WITH FORCE.
WITH FORCE. EUROPE
OWES IT TO ALL THE
EUROPE OWES IT TO ALL THE
VICTIMS OF TERRORISM AND THEIR
VICTIMS OF TERRORISM
AND THEIR LOVED ONES.
LOVED ONES. >> Sreenivasan:
THE HEAD OF THE
>> Sreenivasan: THE HEAD OF THE
E.U.'S LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY--
EUROPOL-- AGREED THAT MORE NEEDS
TO BE DONE TO PREVENT FUTURE
TO BE DONE TO PREVENT
FUTURE ATROCITIES.
ATROCITIES. >> I THINK
THE KEY TO RESPOND TO
>> I THINK THE KEY TO RESPOND TO
SUCH A COMPLEX AND NOW CLEARLY
AN INTERNATIONAL THREAT OF THE
DIMENSION WE HAVE SEEN IS
DIMENSION WE HAVE SEEN
IS INFORMATION SHARING.
INFORMATION SHARING. THE
ABILITY TO COLLECT AND
THE ABILITY TO COLLECT AND
CONNECT THE RIGHT INTELLIGENCE
AT THE RIGHT TIME AND THIS IS A
VERY COMPLEX ENVIRONMENT WHERE
WE'VE GOT TO GET THAT RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: BACK IN PARIS,
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS ANNOUNCED
PLANS TO HOLD A NATIONAL
REMEMBRANCE CEREMONY IN THE
CAPITAL ONE WEEK FROM TODAY TO
CAPITAL ONE WEEK FROM TODAY
TO HONOR THE ATTACK VICTIMS.
HONOR THE ATTACK VICTIMS. >>
Woodruff: YOU WERE TALKING
>> Woodruff: YOU WERE TALKING
TO FRENCH SECURITY OFFICIALS.
WHAT ADDITIONAL POWERS DO THEY
WHAT ADDITIONAL POWERS
DO THEY NOW HAVE?
NOW HAVE? THEY SAY
THEY'RE TEMPORARY BUT
THEY SAY THEY'RE TEMPORARY BUT
WHAT MORE CAN THEY DO IN THE
WHAT MORE CAN THEY
DO IN THE SHORT RUN?
SHORT RUN? >> Sreevasan:
WELL, THEY CAN
>> Sreevasan: WELL, THEY CAN NOW
MAKE BASICALLY HOUSE ARRESTS
NOW MAKE BASICALLY HOUSE ARRESTS
OF ANYONE THEY WANT WITHOUT
REALLY ANY REPERCUSSION FORCE
REALLY ANY REPERCUSSION
FORCE THEM.
THEM. JUST IF THEY
FEEL THAT THAT
JUST IF THEY FEEL THAT THAT
INDIVIDUAL IS A THREAT TO PUBLIC
SECURITY, THEY CAN DISSOLVE
GROUPS THAT THEY ALSO THINK
PERHAPS COULD INCITE TERROR.
THEY CAN BLOCK WEB SITES THAT
THEY CAN BLOCK WEB SITES
THAT THEY THINK ARE RELATED
THEY THINK ARE
RELATED TERRORISM.
TERRORISM. THEY CAN
ALSO EXTEND THE ABILITY
THEY CAN ALSO EXTEND THE ABILITY
TO CARRY OUT WARRANTLESS
SEARCHES AND THEY CAN ALSO SEIZE
ANY DATA THAT IS IN A HOME OR
ANY DATA THAT IS IN A HOME
OR DURING THAT SEARCH.
DURING THAT SEARCH. THE
ONLY EXCEPTIONS ARE FOR
THE ONLY EXCEPTIONS ARE FOR
JOWMPLISTS AND LAWYERS WHO ARE
JOWMPLISTS AND LAWYERS WHO
ARE MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.
MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.
>> Woodruff: HARI, FROM
>> Woodruff: HARI, FROM TALKING
TO THE FRENCH POLICE, DO
TALKING TO THE FRENCH POLICE, DO
YOU GET THE SENSE THAT THEY NOW
HAVE THE TOOLS TO PREVENT FUTURE
HAVE THE TOOLS TO
PREVENT FUTURE ATTACKS?
ATTACKS? HOW CONFIDENT
DO THEY SEEM?
HOW CONFIDENT DO THEY SEEM?
>> WELL, WHAT THEY SAY IS,
LISTEN, WE HAVE PREVENTED SIX
MAJOR ATTACKS ON FRENCH SOIL
MAJOR ATTACKS ON FRENCH
SOIL SINCE "CHARLIE HEBDO."
SINCE "CHARLIE HEBDO." WE
ARE WORKING AS WELL AS WE
WE ARE WORKING AS
WELL AS WE CAN.
CAN. OBVIOUSLY, WE MISSED THIS.
OBVIOUSLY, WE MISSED
THIS. THIS IS A FAILURE.
THIS IS A FAILURE. THERE
IS NOBODY THAT'S TRYING TO
THERE IS NOBODY THAT'S
TRYING TO COVER THAT UP.
COVER THAT UP. BUT ONE
OF THE CONCERNS AND
BUT ONE OF THE CONCERNS AND
COMPLAINS THEY AND MOST TO HAVE
THE EUROPEAN NATIONS HAVE IS I
WISH WE HAD BETTER ACCESS TO
WISH WE HAD BETTER
ACCESS TO INTELLIGENCE.
INTELLIGENCE. WE KNOW
OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE
WE KNOW OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE
INTELLIGENCE ABOUT SOME OF THESE
INDIVIDUALS BUT WE'RE JUST NOT
GETTING AND THEY SAID, YES, THE
INFORMATION SHARING HAS GOTTEN
INFORMATION SHARING HAS
GOTTEN BETTER S HEBDO" BUT
BETTER S HEBDO" BUT
CLEARLY NOT ENOUGH.
CLEARLY NOT ENOUGH. >>
Woodruff: DO THEY EXPECT TO
>> Woodruff: DO THEY
EXPECT TO GET IT?
GET IT? >> Sreenivasan:
THEY HOPE SO,
>> Sreenivasan: THEY HOPE SO,
AND THIS IS ONE OF THE KEY
CONCERNS THAT THE POLITICAL
ESTABLISHMENT HAS IS EXACTLY
WHAT ELSE DO YOU NEED?
WHAT ELSE DO YOU NEED? IS
IT ABOUT CREATING A WHOLE
IS IT ABOUT CREATING A WHOLE
DIFFERENT AGENCY ACROSS EUROPE
DIFFERENT AGENCY ACROSS
EUROPE THAT WORKS TOGETHER?
THAT WORKS TOGETHER? OR
IS IT ABOUT BEEFING THE
OR IS IT ABOUT BEEFING
THE EXISTING ONES UP?
EXISTING ONES UP? >>
Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN,
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN,
JOINING US ONCE AGAIN FROM THE
JOINING US ONCE AGAIN FROM
THE STREETS OF PARIS.
STREETS OF PARIS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: WHEN THE MAN
THOUGHT TO HAVE PLANNED THE
PARIS ATTACKS WAS KILLED DURING
A RAID ON WEDNESDAY, A WOMAN WHO
WAS WITH HIM ALSO DIED IN THE
WAS WITH HIM ALSO
DIED IN THE ASSAULT.
ASSAULT. IT'S UNCLEAR
WHAT ROLE SHE
IT'S UNCLEAR WHAT ROLE SHE
PLAYED, IF ANY, IN PLANNING THE
PLAYED, IF ANY, IN
PLANNING THE ATTACKS.
ATTACKS. BUT EXPERTS
SAY MORE AND MORE
BUT EXPERTS SAY MORE AND
MORE WOMEN ARE JOINING ISIS,
WOMEN ARE JOINING ISIS,
TRAVELLING TO TERRITORY HELD BY
THE GROUP IN SYRIA AND IRAQ.
WHY ARE THEY MAKING THE TRIP?
AND WHAT DO THEY FIND WHEN THEY
AND WHAT DO THEY FIND
WHEN THEY GET THERE?
GET THERE? WILLIAM
BRANGHAM HAS MORE.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM HAS MORE. >>
Brangham: HERE WITH ME NOW
>> Brangham: HERE WITH ME NOW
TO DISCUSS THE MOTIVATIONS OF
THE WOMEN WHO JOIN THE ISLAMIC
STATE IS NEWSHOUR FOREIGN
AFFAIRS PRODUCER P.J. TOBIA.
HE ALSO HOSTS OUR SHORTWAVE
PODCAST, WHICH THIS WEEK IS ALL
PODCAST, WHICH THIS WEEK IS
ALL ABOUT "THE WOMEN OF ISIS"
ABOUT "THE WOMEN OF ISIS" SO,
P.J., HOW DO WE KNOW WHAT WE
SO, P.J., HOW DO WE KNOW WHAT
WE KNOW ABOUT THESE WOMEN?
KNOW ABOUT THESE WOMEN?
AND WHO ARE THEY?
AND WHO ARE THEY? >>
WELL, FIRST OF ALL,
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL,
EVERYTHING THAT WE KNOW PRETTY
MUCH COMES FROM SOCIAL MEDIA
PLATFORMS -- Facebook,
INSTAGRAM, TWITTER -- THEY'RE
VERY ACTIVE IN DOCUMENTING NOT
ONLY THEIR RADICALIZATION IN
PLACE BEFORE THEY LEAVE THEIR
HOMES IN THE WEST OR IN ASIA OR
REALLY ANYWHERE THEY TRAVEL TO
TERRITORY CONTROLLED BY THE
ISLAMIC STATE AND WHAT LIFE IS
ISLAMIC STATE AND WHAT LIFE
IS LIKE WHEN THEY GET THERE.
LIKE WHEN THEY GET THERE.
AS TO WHO THEY ARE RUNS THE
AS TO WHO THEY ARE
RUNS THE GAMUT.
GAMUT. THERE WAS A
GREEN GIRLS CASE.
THERE WAS A GREEN GIRLS CASE.
THREE YOUNG WOMEN, HIGH
SCHOOL-AGE GIRLS FROM EASTERN
LONDON WHO JOWRNERRED TO THE
TERRITORY CONTROLLED BY THE
ISLAMIC STATE EARLIER THIS YEAR,
BUT THERE ARE ALSO OLDER WOMEN.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO OLDER
WOMEN. THERE IS A STORY OF A
THERE IS A STORY OF A
26-YEAR-OLD WOMAN, A DOCTOR FROM
MALAYSIA WHO RELOCATED TO SYRIA
LAST YEAR AND CHRONICLED HER
JOURNEY THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA AND
SAID ALONG THE WAY SHE SAW WOMEN
IN THEIR 60s, MUCH OLDER WOMEN
IN THEIR 60s, MUCH OLDER
WOMEN MAKING THIS JOURNEY.
MAKING THIS JOURNEY. >>
Brangham: DO YOU HAVE ANY
>> Brangham: DO YOU HAVE
ANY IDEA HOW MANY WOMEN?
IDEA HOW MANY WOMEN?
>> HARD TO SAY.
>> HARD TO SAY. IN MEDIA
REPORTS IS 550 FOREIGN
IN MEDIA REPORTS IS 550 FOREIGN
WOMEN HAVE GONE THERE.
WOMEN HAVE GONE THERE. THAT
NUMBERS COMES FROM THE
THAT NUMBERS COMES FROM THE
INSTITUTE OF STRATEGIC DIALOGUE.
IT'S A TERRORISM N.G.O. THINK
IT'S A TERRORISM N.G.O.
THINK TANK BASED IN LONDON.
TANK BASED IN LONDON. BUT
SPEAKING TO THE PEOPLE WHO
BUT SPEAKING TO THE PEOPLE WHO
CAME UP WITH THAT NUMBER AT THE
INSTITUTE, THEY SAY THAT NUMBER
IS WILDLY OUTDATED FROM EARLIER
IS WILDLY OUTDATED FROM
EARLIER THIS YEAR.
THIS YEAR. >> Brangham:
THEY THINK IT'S
>> Brangham: THEY
THINK IT'S HIGHER?
HIGHER? >> MUCH HIGHER.
>> MUCH HIGHER. OVER
THE SUMMER, GERMANY
OVER THE SUMMER, GERMANY
INTELLIGENCE SAID 100 WOMEN JUST
FROM GERMANY TRAVELED TO ISLAMIC
FROM GERMANY TRAVELED TO
ISLAMIC STATE TERRITORY.
STATE TERRITORY. ONE
RESEARCHER SAID ONE IN FOUR
ONE RESEARCHER SAID ONE IN FOUR
PEOPLE LEAVING EUROPE TO JOIN
JIHAD IN THESE TERRITORIES IS A
JIHAD IN THESE TERRITORIES IS
A WOMAN AND THE NUMBER OF MEN
WOMAN AND THE NUMBER OF MEN
PLATEAUED AND THE NUMBER OF
PLATEAUED AND THE NUMBER
OF WOMEN IS INCREASING.
WOMEN IS INCREASING. >>
Brangham: WHAT DO THEY DO
>> Brangham: WHAT DO THEY
DO ONCE THEY LAND IN
ONCE THEY LAND IN
I.S.I.S.-CONTROLLED TERRITORY IS
I.S.I.S.-CONTROLLED TERRITORY
IS THIS ARE THEY JOINING THE
THIS ARE THEY JOINING
THE COMMUNITY?
COMMUNITY? WHAT IS
THEIR LIFE LIKE?
WHAT IS THEIR LIFE LIKE? >>
THE MOST IMPORTANT ROLE FOR
>> THE MOST IMPORTANT ROLE FOR
WOMEN IN AREAS CONTROLLED BY THE
WOMEN IN AREAS CONTROLLED BY
THE ISLAMIC STATE IS WIFE AND
ISLAMIC STATE IS
WIFE AND MOTHER.
MOTHER. THAT'S BEEN
WRITTEN BY THE
THAT'S BEEN WRITTEN BY THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP ITSELF.
THEY'VE WRITTEN TREATIES ABOUT
THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN THE ISLAMIC
STATE THAT'S BEEN PUBLISHED AND
TRANSLATED AND THAT'S PRIMARILY
TRANSLATED AND THAT'S
PRIMARILY WHAT THEY DO.
WHAT THEY DO. THEY GET
MARRIED ALMOST AS SOON
THEY GET MARRIED ALMOST AS SOON
AS THEY'RE THERE IN MOST CASES
ACCORDING TO RESEARCHERS THAT
STUDY THIS STUFF, AND THEY'RE
HOMEMAKERS, THEY'RE PROVIDED FOR
HOMEMAKERS, THEY'RE PROVIDED
FOR IN AN INTERESTING WAY.
IN AN INTERESTING WAY. THEY
BASICALLY RECEIVE A WEEKLY
THEY BASICALLY RECEIVE
A WEEKLY STIPEND.
STIPEND. THEY HAVE FOOD.
THEY HAVE FOOD. IF THEY'RE
MARRIED, THEY GET A
IF THEY'RE MARRIED,
THEY GET A HOME.
HOME. THEY TRY TO SAY A SORT OF
THEY TRY TO SAY A SORT
OF NORMALCY OF LIFE.
NORMALCY OF LIFE. THERE IS
A SOCIAL MEDIA MESSAGE.
THERE IS A SOCIAL MEDIA MESSAGE.
THERE IS A PICTURE OF A BOUNDARY
CANDY BAR YOU CAN FIND IN ALMOST
ANY WESTERN CONVENIENCE STORE ON
A PILE OF WRITING AND WORDS TO
THE EFFECT OF I'M DOING SOME
WORK AND ENJOYING SOME CANDY,
JUST AS YOU MIGHT BE DOING RIGHT
NOW AT YOUR HOUSE IN THE WEST.
ANOTHER THING THEY TALK ABOUT ON
SOCIAL MEDIA AND YOU SEE THIS IN
SOCIAL MEDIA AND YOU SEE THIS
IN MANY STUDIES IS A CULTURE OF
MANY STUDIES IS A CULTURE OF
WIDOWHOOD WHERE THE MEN THEY
MARRY GO OFF TO FIGHT AND DIE
AND THEY GLORIFY THIS IDEA OF
AND THEY GLORIFY THIS
IDEA OF BEING WIDOWS.
BEING WIDOWS. ONE TWEET
SAID I NEVER THOUGHT I
ONE TWEET SAID I NEVER THOUGHT
I WOULD BE A WIDOW AT 18.
WOULD BE A WIDOW AT 18. WE
PLOT AND PLAN BUT ALLAH IS
WE PLOT AND PLAN BUT ALLAH
IS THE BEST OF PLANNERS.
THE BEST OF PLANNERS. >>
Brangham: THESE ARE WOMEN
>> Brangham: THESE ARE WOMEN
WHO RECENTLY MARRIED I.S.I.S.
FIGHTERS AND THE MEN GET KILLED
FIGHTERS AND THE MEN GET
KILLED IN BATTLE AND THE WOMEN
IN BATTLE AND THE
WOMEN CELEBRATE THAT?
CELEBRATE THAT? >> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT. ONE
EXPERT SAID A QUARTER OF
ONE EXPERT SAID A QUARTER OF
WOMEN SHETION BEEN FOLLOWING ON
SOCIAL MEDIA ARE WIDOWS AND MOST
WIDOWED IN THE LAST SIX MONTHS.
SO WHEN YOU GO ON SOCIAL MEDIA,
YOU WILL SEE MESSAGES LIKE
"MARRIAGE IN THE LAND OF JIHAD,
TILL MARTYRDOM DO US PART."
THERE IS A CULTURE OF
GLORIFYING, BECAUSE WOMEN WHO
DON'T FIGHT ON THE LINES OF
ISLAMIC STATE, HAVING A WOMAN
WHO DIES AS A MARTYR IN JIHAD IS
WHO DIES AS A MARTYR IN JIHAD
IS THE NEXT BEST THING IN.
THE NEXT BEST THING IN. THEIR
CULTURE, IT'S -- IN THEIR
THEIR CULTURE, IT'S -- IN THEIR
CULTURE, IT'S LOOKED AT AS A
CULTURE, IT'S LOOKED AT AS
A FAST TRACK TO PARADISE.
FAST TRACK TO PARADISE.
>> Brangham: P.J. TOBIA,
>> Brangham: P.J.
TOBIA, THANKS SO MUCH.
THANKS SO MUCH. >>
THANKS, WILLIAM.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: A
FOUNDING FATHER CAPTURED IN
A FOUNDING FATHER CAPTURED IN
SONG; THE MAN BEHIND THE MUSICAL
SONG; THE MAN BEHIND THE
MUSICAL "HAMILTON."
"HAMILTON." BUT FIRST,
HERE IN THE U.S,
BUT FIRST, HERE IN THE U.S,
POLITICIANS HAVE CLASHED IN
RESPONSE TO THE PARIS ATTACKS,
OVER REFUGEES AND SECURITY AT
OVER REFUGEES AND
SECURITY AT HOME.
HOME. POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
DESJARDINS REPORTS.
DESJARDINS REPORTS. >>
Reporter: LAST NIGHT IN IOWA
>> Reporter: LAST NIGHT IN IOWA
THE POINTED DEBATE OVER REFUGEES
SHARPENED EVEN MORE, WHEN DONALD
TRUMP WAS ASKED WHETHER TO
REGISTER AND TRACK MUSLIMS.
>> WE SHOULD HAVE A LOT OF
SYSTEMS AND TODAY YOU CAN DO IT.
>> Reporter: SO, A REPORTER
FOLLOWED UP: TRUMP WOULD
IMPLEMENT A MUSLIM DATABASE?
>> OH I WOULD CERTAINLY
IMPLEMENT THAT.
IMPLEMENT THAT. >> Reporter:
IN A TWEET TODAY,
>> Reporter: IN A TWEET TODAY,
TRUMP DID NOT BACK DOWN PER SE,
BUT DID CLARIFY, SAYING: "I
DIDN'T SUGGEST A DATABASE.
A REPORTER DID."
A REPORTER DID." IN NEW
HAMPIRESH TODAY, RIVAL
IN NEW HAMPIRESH TODAY, RIVAL
BEN CARSON FLATLY REJECTED THE
BEN CARSON FLATLY REJECTED
THE DATABASE IDEA.
DATABASE IDEA. >> IF
WE'RE JUST GOING TO PICK
>> IF WE'RE JUST GOING TO PICK
OUT A PARTICULAR GROUP OF PEOPLE
BASED ON THEIR RELIGION, BASED
ON THEIR RACE, BASED ON SOME
OTHER THING, THAT'S SETTING A
PRETTY DANGEROUS PRECEDENT.
PRETTY DANGEROUS PRECEDENT. >>
Reporter: BUT LAST NIGHT IN
>> Reporter: BUT LAST NIGHT
IN ALABAMA, CARSON SPARKED
ALABAMA, CARSON SPARKED
CRITICISM HIMSELF.
CRITICISM HIMSELF. WHILE
ARGUING THAT SECURITY MUST
WHILE ARGUING THAT SECURITY MUST
BALANCE WITH COMPASSION, HE
OFFERED THIS ANALOGY ABOUT
OFFERED THIS ANALOGY
ABOUT REFUGEES.
REFUGEES. >> IF THERE
IS A RABID DOG
>> IF THERE IS A RABID
DOG RUNNING AROUND YOUR
RUNNING AROUND YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD, YOU'RE PROBABLY
NOT GOING TO ASSUME SOMETHING
GOOD ABOUT THAT DOG AND YOU'RE
PROBABLY GOING TO PUT YOUR
CHILDREN OUT OF THE WAY.
CHILDREN OUT OF THE WAY. IT
DOESN'T MEAN YOU HATE ALL
IT DOESN'T MEAN YOU HATE ALL
DOGS, BY ANY STRETCH OF THE
DOGS, BY ANY STRETCH
OF THE IMAGINATION.
IMAGINATION. >>
Reporter: SOME OTHER
>> Reporter: SOME OTHER
REPUBLICANS STRUCK A DIFFERENT
REPUBLICANS STRUCK
A DIFFERENT TONE.
TONE. >> I THINK WE NEED TO BE
>> I THINK WE NEED TO BE
CAUTIOUS THAT WE DON'T GET TO A
POINT WHERE OUR EMOTIONS TAKE
POINT WHERE OUR EMOTIONS
TAKE OVER OUR BRAIN.
OVER OUR BRAIN. >> THE
STATUE OF LIBERTY CANNOT
>> THE STATUE OF LIBERTY
CANNOT HAVE A STIFF ARM.
HAVE A STIFF ARM. BUT IF
WE USE OUR PASSIONS AND
BUT IF WE USE OUR PASSIONS AND
OUR ANGER, FEAR, AND WE USE THAT
OUR ANGER, FEAR, AND WE USE
THAT TO SNUFF OUR HER FLAME BY
TO SNUFF OUR HER FLAME BY
XENOPHOBIC AND KNEE-JERK POLICY,
XENOPHOBIC AND KNEE-JERK
POLICY, THE ENEMY WINS.
THE ENEMY WINS. >>
Reporter: THE DEMOCRATIC
>> Reporter: THE DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES TODAY
CONDEMNED THE RHETORIC,
INCLUDING FORMER MARYLAND
GOVERNOR MARTIN O'MALLEY.
GOVERNOR MARTIN O'MALLEY. >>
WHEN YOU HEAR PEOPLE LIKE
>> WHEN YOU HEAR PEOPLE LIKE
DONALD TRUMP TALKING ABOUT
WANTING TO DO I.D. CARDS BASED
ON RELIGION-- WHAT THE HELL IS
ON RELIGION-- WHAT
THE HELL IS THAT?
THAT? >> Reporter:
THE WAR OF WORDS
>> Reporter: THE WAR OF WORDS
HAS ALSO ENGAGED THE CURRENT
HAS ALSO ENGAGED THE
CURRENT WHITE HOUSE.
WHITE HOUSE. IN THE
PHILIPPINES THIS WEEK,
IN THE PHILIPPINES THIS WEEK,
PRESIDENT OBAMA CRITICIZED
CONGRESS AS ACTING QUICKLY TO
BLOCK SYRIAN REFUGEES, BUT
TAKING NO ACTION TO AUTHORIZE
MILITARY FORCE AGAINST THE
MILITARY FORCE AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE.
ISLAMIC STATE. >> AND
NOW, SUDDENLY, THEY'RE
>> AND NOW, SUDDENLY, THEY'RE
ABLE TO RUSH IN, IN A DAY OR
TWO, TO SOLVE THE THREAT OF
WIDOWS AND ORPHANS AND OTHERS
WHO ARE FLEEING A WAR-TORN LAND,
WHO ARE FLEEING A WAR-TORN
LAND, AND THAT'S THEIR MOST
AND THAT'S THEIR MOST
CONSTRUCTIVE CONTRIBUTION TO THE
CONSTRUCTIVE CONTRIBUTION
TO THE EFFORT AGAINST ISIL?
EFFORT AGAINST ISIL? THAT
DOESN'T SOUND RIGHT TO ME.
THAT DOESN'T SOUND RIGHT TO ME.
>> Reporter: THE REFUGEE ISSUE--
BARELY DISCUSSED TEN DAYS AGO--
IS NOW THE TOP POLITICAL DEBATE
IS NOW THE TOP POLITICAL
DEBATE IN THE COUNTRY.
IN THE COUNTRY. FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M LISA
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
I'M LISA DESJARDINS.
DESJARDINS. >> Woodruff:
AND TO THE ANALYSIS
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE
ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS. THAT'S
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST
MARK SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN. , SO
THIS ENTIRE WEEK WE HAVE
, SO THIS ENTIRE WEEK WE HAVE
SPENT LOOKING AT WHAT HAPPENED
SPENT LOOKING AT WHAT
HAPPENED IN PARIS.
IN PARIS. MY QUESTION
IS, DAVID, WHAT HAS
MY QUESTION IS, DAVID, WHAT HAS
THIS DONE IN THE UNITED STATES?
ARE WE NOW IN A NEW NORMAL AS WE
ARE WE NOW IN A NEW NORMAL
AS WE WERE AFTER 9/11?
WERE AFTER 9/11? >> I
THINK WHAT I.S.I.S. HAS
>> I THINK WHAT I.S.I.S. HAS
DONE PSYCHOLOGICALLY, IT'S A
DRUG YOU HAVE TO TAKE MORE OF TO
DRUG YOU HAVE TO TAKE MORE
OF TO FEET THE EFFECT.
FEET THE EFFECT. THEIR
LEVEL OF VICIOUSNESS AND
THEIR LEVEL OF VICIOUSNESS AND
VIOLENCE, THEY'VE RATCHETED UP A
VIOLENCE, THEY'VE
RATCHETED UP A LEVEL.
LEVEL. THEY STARTED DOING THAT T
THEY STARTED DOING THAT T FIRST
TIME WE BECAME CONSCIOUS
FIRST TIME WE BECAME CONSCIOUS
OF THEM, THE BEHEADINGS, SETTING
PEOPLE ON FIRE, THIS KILLING.
AND WHILE THEY HAVEN'T ACHIEVED
THE SUPER AL QUAIDA 9/11,
THEY'VE CREATED A MORE MENACING
ATMOSPHERE I THINK IN THIS
COUNTRY AND CERTAINLY IN EUROPE
AND AROUND THE WORLD IN NIGERIA,
BOKO HARAM, AND I THINK THERE IS
A SENSE OF LIVING WITH VIOLENCE.
I THINK IN ISRAEL, WITH THE
MIDDLE EAST POLICY, THE CITIZENS
MIDDLE EAST POLICY, THE
CITIZENS LIVE WITH VIOLENCE.
LIVE WITH VIOLENCE. YOU
ADJUST IN SOME WAYS, DEVELOP
YOU ADJUST IN SOME WAYS, DEVELOP
RITUALS IN SOME WAYS AND IT
PREYS ON THE CONSCIOUSNESS IN A
LOT OF WAYS AND I THINK WE'RE
MORE OR LESS IN THAT WORLD.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU FEEL
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU
FEEL IT CHANGES THINGS?
IT CHANGES THINGS? >> I
DON'T THINK IT COMPARES
>> I DON'T THINK IT
COMPARES WITH 9/11.
WITH 9/11. 9/11 WAS A
PROFOUND, TRAUMATIC
9/11 WAS A PROFOUND, TRAUMATIC
EXPERIENCE IN THIS NATION AND
JUST IN THE REACTION, I THINK
THAT YOU CAN SEE WHAT 14 YEARS
OF CONFLICT HAS DONE AND 14
YEARS OF BEING AT WAR HAS DONE
AS WELL AS WHAT I.S.I.S. HAS
AS WELL AS WHAT
I.S.I.S. HAS DONE.
DONE. 14 YEARS AGO,
WHEN THE UNITED
14 YEARS AGO, WHEN THE UNITED
STATES SUFFERED THE GREATEST
INFLICTION OF LOSS OF LIFE ON
ITS OWN SOIL IN OUR HISTORY, THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
GEORGE W. BUSH, VISITED A
GEORGE W. BUSH,
VISITED A MOSQUE.
MOSQUE. HE SAID ISLAM
ARE OUR FRIENDS.
HE SAID ISLAM ARE OUR FRIENDS.
HE SAID PEOPLE WHO DO THIS ARE
TRAITORS TO THEIR FAITH, AND WE
TRAITORS TO THEIR FAITH,
AND WE MUST REMEMBER THAT.
MUST REMEMBER THAT. HE
LOOKED LIKE ABRAHAM LINCOLN
HE LOOKED LIKE ABRAHAM LINCOLN
COMPARED TO THE REACTION OF
POLITICIANS IN THIS CITY AND
PARTICULARLY IN LISA DESJARDINS'
PIECE TONIGHT, WHICH WAS SMALL,
PETTY, VENGEFUL, UN-AMERICAN,
UNSERIOUS AND IRRESPONSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THAT AND FIRST LOOK AT WHAT --
THE PRESIDENT PRETTY MUCH CAME
OUT OF THE BOX, DAVID, AND SAID
OUR STRATEGY AGAINST I.S.I.S. IS
OUR STRATEGY AGAINST
I.S.I.S. IS WORKING.
WORKING. YES, THIS IS
A BAD THING BUT I'M
YES, THIS IS A BAD THING BUT
I'M REALLY NOT GOING TO CHANGE
REALLY NOT GOING TO CHANGE
ANYTHING IN A BIG WAY.
ANYTHING IN A BIG WAY. IS HE
-- IS HE RIGHT WITH THAT?
IS HE -- IS HE RIGHT WITH THAT?
IS HE ON TRACK AS HE SAYS HE IS?
>> LET ME ECHO SOMETHING MARK
>> LET ME ECHO
SOMETHING MARK SAID.
SAID. GEOE W.RG BUSH'S
REACTION VERSUS
GEOE W.RG BUSH'S REACTION VERSUS
THE CURRENT REACTION OF THE
DONALD TRUMPS AND THE BEN
CARSON, IT'S IMMORAL, DEGRADING
AND BAD FOREIGN POLICY.
BEN CARSON IS UNNIRNG FOR
OFFICE, A SENIOR FIGURE, AND IF
YOU'RE A SOLDIER YOU NEED TO
YOU'RE A SOLDIER YOU
NEED TO SHOW RESPECT.
SHOW RESPECT. WHEN THAT
RHETORIC FLIES OUT
WHEN THAT RHETORIC FLIES OUT
ACROSS THE WORLD IT MAKES IT
HARDER FOR OUR DIPLOMATS AND
SERVICE LEADERS ABROAD.
ETH IT HAS IMPACT.
ETH IT HAS IMPACT. THIS
HAS BEEN A SLOW-ROLLING
THIS HAS BEEN A SLOW-ROLLING
GENOCIDE FOR A LONG TIME AND IN
SEVERAL STOPS ALONG THE WAY,
THERE HAVE BEEN PEOPLE IN THIS
ADMINISTRATION AND OTHER PARTIES
WHO COUNSELED SOME SORT OF
ACTION HE COULD HAVE TAKEN TO
AMELIORATE SOME OF THE DEATH
WE'VE SEEN AND HE HAS WITHDRAWN
AND NOT TAKEN THE ACTIONS, EVEN
AND NOT TAKEN THE ACTIONS,
EVEN WHEN RED LINES HAVE BEEN
WHEN RED LINES HAVE BEEN
CROSSED, A TRAINING PROGRAM
WHICH DIDN'T WORK, HAS HAD TOKEN
WHICH DIDN'T WORK, HAS HAD
TOKEN EFFORTS RECENTLY.
EFFORTS RECENTLY. SO FOR
HIM TO COME BACK SELF
SO FOR HIM TO COME BACK SELF
RIGHTEOUSLY FOR OTHER PEOPLE, HE
BEARS SOME RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
BEARS SOME RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE SYRIAN REFUGEE CRISIS.
SYRIAN REFUGEE CRISIS. HE
MADE DECISIONS TO SAVE
HE MADE DECISIONS TO SAVE
AMERICAN INTERESTS BUT AT THE
COST OF WHAT CLEARLY HAS BEEN A
COST OF WHAT CLEARLY HAS
BEEN A GENOCIDE IN SYRIA.
GENOCIDE IN SYRIA. >>
Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
ABOUTHE PRESIDENT'S STRATEGY?
>> THE ONLY CONSISTENT VOICE ON
THE REPUBLICAN SIDE HAS BEEN
LINDSEY GRAHAM, SENATOR FROM
SOUTH CAROLINA, CONSISTENTLY
SAID WE SHOULD SEND 10,000
SAID WE SHOULD SEND
10,000 TROOPS --
TROOPS -- >> Woodruff: AMONG THE
>> Woodruff: AMONG
THE CANDIDATES.
CANDIDATES. >> AMONG
>> AMONG THE CANDIDATES.
EVERYTHING THE PRESIDENT IS
DOING THAT HE'S RECOMMENDED TO
DO, HE'S ALREADY DOING, MAYBE
NOT IN NUMBERS, BUT HE'S GOT
NOT IN NUMBERS, BUT HE'S
GOT SPECIAL OPS,ONES.
SPECIAL OPS,ONES. THIS
IS A COUNTRY THAT IS WAR
THIS IS A COUNTRY THAT IS
WAR WEARY AFTER 14 YEARS.
WEARY AFTER 14 YEARS. WE
CAN'T EVEN, IN CONGRESS --
WE CAN'T EVEN, IN CONGRESS
-- CONGRESS WON'T ADDRESS AN
CONGRESS WON'T ADDRESS AN
AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF
AUTHORIZATION FOR USE
OF MILITARY FORCE.
MILITARY FORCE. I
MEAN, THEY WON'T EVEN
I MEAN, THEY WON'T
EVEN CONFRONT.
CONFRONT. THIS THEY
-- THEY WON'T BEAR A
THIS THEY -- THEY WON'T BEAR
A BURDEN OR PAY A PRICE.
BURDEN OR PAY A PRICE. THEY
WANT TO SIT OFFSHORE AND
THEY WANT TO SIT OFFSHORE
AND LOB GRENADES.
LOB GRENADES. I AGREE
THE PRESIDENT'S PREMISE
I AGREE THE PRESIDENT'S PREMISE
HAS BEEN THE UNITED STATES WILL
HAS BEEN THE UNITED STATES
WILL NOT GO TO WAR.
NOT GO TO WAR. THAT HABIT.
THAT HABIT. HE WAS
ELECTED TO END WARS.
HE WAS ELECTED TO END WARS. HE
DOESN'T WANT TO START ANOTHER
HE DOESN'T WANT TO START ANOTHER
ONE, AND I THINK THAT HIS
POLICIES HAVE BEEN, IN FACT,
LESS THAN SUCCESSFUL BY ANY
LESS THAN SUCCESSFUL
BY ANY MEASUREMENT.
MEASUREMENT. BUT THE
REALITY IS WHATEVER --
BUT THE REALITY IS WHATEVER --
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF LINDSEY
GRAHAM -- I MEAN, MARCO RUBIO
SAID IT'S PREMATURE TO DISCUSS
THE NUMBER OF TROOPS.
THE NUMBER OF TROOPS. SAID
WE SHOULD SEND THEM BUT
SAID WE SHOULD SEND THEM BUT
PREMATURE TO DISCUSS THE NUMBER.
DRONES ARE A PERFECT WEAPON FOR
A COUNTRY WHO DOESN'T WANT TO GO
A COUNTRY WHO DOESN'T
WANT TO GO TO WAR.
TO WAR. THERE IS
NO FINGERPRINT, NO
THERE IS NO FINGERPRINT,
NO DIRECT INVOLVEMENT.
DIRECT INVOLVEMENT. HUMAN
BEINGS ARE KILLED ON THE
HUMAN BEINGS ARE KILLED ON THE
OTHER END, YOU DON'T HAVE TO SEE
THEM, WORRY ABOUT THEM OR MEET
THEM, WORRY ABOUT THEM
OR MEET THEIR WIDOWS.
THEIR WIDOWS. IT'S
ANTISEPTIC WARFARE AND
IT'S ANTISEPTIC WARFARE AND
THAT'S WHAT'S BEEN EMBRACED.
THAT'S WHAT'S BEEN EMBRACED. >>
THE COWARDICE ON CAPITOL HILL
>> THE COWARDICE ON CAPITOL
HILL HAS SET OFF THE DEBATE.
HAS SET OFF THE DEBATE. >>
THERE ARE A COUPLE IN ARIZONA
>> THERE ARE A COUPLE IN ARIZONA
LED THE FIGHT THAT THEY SHOULD
LED THE FIGHT THAT THEY
SHOULD CONFRONT IT.
CONFRONT IT. >> THE
GOOD NEWS IS THERE'S
>> THE GOOD NEWS IS THERE'S
BEGIN TOCK SOME SORT OF
BIPARTISAN, COHESIVE THINKING.
HILLARY CLINTON, MARCO RUBIO,
HILLARY CLINTON, MARCO
RUBIO, JEB BUSH GAVE TALKS.
JEB BUSH GAVE TALKS. THEY
DIDN'T JUST SAY LET'S BOMB
THEY DIDN'T JUST SAY LET'S BOMB
I.S.I.S., BUT AS LONG AS ASSAD
IS IN POWER, HE CREATES A
SITUATION WHERE YOU CAN'T GET
RID OF I.S.I.S. BECAUSE THE
MODERATE SUNNIS WILL NOT REBEL
AGAINST I.S.I.S. AS LONG AS
THEY'RE VICTIMS OF THIS HORRIFIC
THEY'RE VICTIMS OF THIS
HORRIFIC CAMP FSSAD, SO WHAT WE
CAMP FSSAD, SO WHAT WE
NEED IS AN UPRISING AG
NEED IS AN UPRISING AG NORMAL
SUNNIS THE WAY WE HAD IN
NORMAL SUNNIS THE WAY WE HAD
IN IRAQ STARTING IN 2007, AND
IRAQ STARTING IN 2007, AND
CLINTON EMPHASIZED THIS IN HER
CLINTON EMPHASIZED
THIS IN HER SPEECH.
SPEECH. SO YOU HAVE
TO LIMIT I.S.I.S.
SO YOU HAVE TO LIMIT I.S.I.S.
YOU ALSO HAVE TO LIMIT ASSAD
WITH SANCTUARIES AND "NO FLY"
ZONES AND OPPOSITION TO HIM AND
IT'S A COMPLICATED DANCE TO BE
AGAINST BOTH SIDES OF A CIVIL
WAR BUT NONETHELESS THAT IS THE
WAR BUT NONETHELESS THAT IS
THE ONLY POLICY THAT HAS ANY
ONLY POLICY THAT HAS ANY
PROSPECT OF SUCCESS AND BOTH
PARTIES ARE ORIENTING AROUND
THAT POSITION. >> Woodruff:
SO YOU'RE SAYING
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE SAYING
WHAT ALL THE CANDIDATES ARE
SAYING AND HILLARY CLINTON IS
SAYING AND HILLARY CLINTON
IS SAYINMAKEG S MORE SENSE?
SAYINMAKEG S MORE SENSE?
>> I THINK HER SPEECH WAS
>> I THINK HER SPEECH
WAS EXCEPTIONAL.
EXCEPTIONAL. COMPLICATED
BUT COHERENT.
COMPLICATED BUT COHERENT.
SHE WANTS TO DO THINGS LIKE
SANCTUARIES AND "NO FLY" ZONES
AGAINST ASSAD RUBIO WANTED TO GO
AGAINST ASSAD RUBIO WANTED TO
GO FURTHER AND MORE SANCTIONS
FURTHER AND MORE SANCTIONS
AGAINST I.S.I.S. BUT THE
FRAMEWORK IS THE SAME WITH BOTH
FRAMEWORK IS THE SAME
WITH BOTH CANDIDATES.
CANDIDATES. >> Woodruff:
HOW DO YOU SEE
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE IT.
IT. >> I THINK SECRETARY CLINTON
>> I THINK SECRETARY CLINTON
MADE A STRONG STATEMENT, IT WAS
MADE A STRONG STATEMENT,
IT WAS COHERENT.
COHERENT. I THINK
THE ARGUMENT IN THE
I THINK THE ARGUMENT IN THE
DEBATE ABOUT A "NO FLY" ZONE IS
A REAL ONE AND I THINK THERE IS
A REAL CASE TO BE MADE AGAINST
IT AND THE QUESTION OF RISK AND
REWARD IS A VERY SERIOUS ONE, NO
REWARD IS A VERY SERIOUS
ONE, NO DOUBT ABOUT IT.
DOUBT ABOUT IT. THE
SANCTUARY ZONE, ESPECIALLY
THE SANCTUARY ZONE, ESPECIALLY
THAT EMBRACED BY DR. CARSON
WHICH IS GOING TO BE
WHICH IS GOING TO
BE ADMINISTERED --
ADMINISTERED -- >>
Woodruff: IT'S ALONG THE
>> Woodruff: IT'S ALONG THE
BORDER BETWEEN TURKEY AND --
BORDER BETWEEN TURKEY AND -- A
SAFE ZONE DONALD TRUMP ENDORSE
A SAFE ZONE DONALD TRUMP ENDORSE
BID IS HIS CONSISTENT SUPPORT OF
BID IS HIS CONSISTENT SUPPORT
OF THREE-SYLLABLE ADJECTIVES,
THREE-SYLLABLE ADJECTIVES,
FANTASTIC, SUCCESSFUL, A
FANTASTIC, SUCCESSFUL,
A BEAUTIFUL SAFE ZONE.
BEAUTIFUL SAFE ZONE. THESE
ARE NOT SERIOUS -- I DON'T
THESE ARE NOT SERIOUS --
I DON'T SEE A CONSENSUS.
SEE A CONSENSUS. WE HAVE
THE WORST TIME TO MAKE
WE HAVE THE WORST TIME TO MAKE
POLICY IS A WEEK AFTER AN EVENT
POLICY IS A WEEK AFTER
AN EVENT AFTER THIS.
AFTER THIS. THERE IS
AN EMOTIONAL REACTION
THERE IS AN EMOTIONAL
REACTION IN THE COUNTRY.
IN THE COUNTRY. THERE IS
NOT A CONSIDERATION OR
THERE IS NOT A CONSIDERATION OR
A REFLECTION UPON WHAT WE'RE
A REFLECTION UPON WHAT
WE'RE WILLING TO DO.
WILLING TO DO. HAS ANYBODY
SUGGESTED WE MIGHT
HAS ANYBODY SUGGESTED WE MIGHT
HAVE TO PAY ANOTHER DIME IN
HAVE TO PAY ANOTHER
DIME IN TAXES?
TAXES? WE HAVE SPENT
$4 TRILLION IN THE
WE HAVE SPENT $4 TRILLION IN THE
LAST 14 YEARS IN WAR WITHOUT
PAYING FOR IT, WITHOUT PAYING
PAYING FOR IT, WITHOUT
PAYING FOR IT.
FOR IT. AND NOW WE
HAVE A BIG DEBATE
AND NOW WE HAVE A BIG DEBATE
ABOUT THE NATIONAL DEBT.
ABOUT THE NATIONAL DEBT. AND
WE ASK WHERE THE NATIONAL
AND WE ASK WHERE THE NATIONAL
DEBT COMES FROM, HOW IT GROWS
AND SWELLS, WHEN YOU HAVE WARS
FOR 14 YEARS YOU DEPLETE AND
FOR 14 YEARS YOU DEPLETE
AND DESTROY AN ARMY.
DESTROY AN ARMY. THE
UNITED STATES ARMY IS
THE UNITED STATES ARMY IS
HOLLOWED OUT AFTER 14 YEARS, IT
HOLLOWED OUT AFTER 14
YEARS, IT IS TIRED.
IS TIRED. YOU HAVE
THESE PEOPLE URGING,
YOU HAVE THESE PEOPLE URGING,
LET'S GO INTO COMBAT, AND AS
SOON AS WE DO AND THINGS GO
WRONG, THEY ARE, AS BOB GATES
SAID, THEY'RE N NOWHERE TO BE
SAID, THEY'RE N
NOWHERE TO BE FOUND.
FOUND. >> I WOULD
SAY NOBODY IS IN
>> I WOULD SAY NOBODY IS IN
FAVOR OF THE ACTION WE HAD IN
FAVOR OF THE ACTION WE
HAD IN IRAQ IN 2003.
IRAQ IN 2003. I DO THINK
WHAT PARIS HAS DONE,
I DO THINK WHAT PARIS HAS DONE,
IT WAS POSSIBLE BEFORE PARIS BUT
I THINK IT'S LESS LIKELY TO MAKE
THIS CASE IS TO SAY, I.S.I.S. IS
SO CRAZY, SYRIA IS MESSED UP,
LET'S LET I.S.I.S. COLLAPSE
UNDER THEIR OWN WEAKNESSES, LET
ASSAD'S INTERNAL WEAKNESSES TAKE
ITSELF DOWN, IT'S SOME CRAZY
ITSELF DOWN, IT'S SOME
CRAZY SYRIAN THING.
SYRIAN THING. A PARIS
SHOWED IT'S NOT JUST A
A PARIS SHOWED IT'S NOT
JUST A CRAZY SYRIAN THING.
CRAZY SYRIAN THING. I.S.I.S.
IS NOW GOING OFF AND
I.S.I.S. IS NOW GOING OFF AND
DOING THIS SORT OF ACTIVITY.
GOD KNOWS WHAT HAPPENS IF THEY
GET THEIR HANDS ON BIOLOGICAL
AND CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
AND CHEMICAL WEAPONS. FOR
THESE PEOPLE, THERE ARE NO
FOR THESE PEOPLE,
THERE ARE NO LIMITS.
LIMITS. TIME IS NOT
ON OUR SIDE ANYMORE.
TIME IS NOT ON OUR SIDE ANYMORE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE ACTION IS.
WE HAVE TO THINK MORE ABOUT
WE HAVE TO THINK
MORE ABOUT THAT.
THAT. >> ON I.S.I.S.,
I STAND IN TOTAL
AGREEMENT WITH DAVID ON I.S.I.S.
43 BLOWN UP IN BEIRUT, A NATION
OF 4 MILLION PEOPLE, TAKEN
OF 4 MILLION PEOPLE,
TAKEN REFUGEES.
REFUGEES. YOU HAVE
220 BLOWN UP ON THE
YOU HAVE 220 BLOWN UP
ON THE RUSSIAN PLANE.
RUSSIAN PLANE. 130 IN PARIS.
130 IN PARIS. UNLIKE AL
QUAIDA, WHERE IT WAS
UNLIKE AL QUAIDA, WHERE IT WAS
MICROMANAGED BY OSAMA BIN LADEN,
THESE ARE AUTONOMOUS GROUPS
DOING IT AND INDIGENOUS,
OBVIOUSLY AS SEEN BY PARIS,
INDIGENOUS RECRUITS.
INDIGENOUS RECRUITS. >>
Woodruff: THE OTHER THING I
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER THING I
DO WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT IN THE
LITTLE BIT OF TIME LEFT AND THAT
IS WE ARE WATCHING THIS DEBATE,
DAVID, PLAY OUT OVER REFUGEES
AND WHAT TO DO, AND THERE YOU DO
HAVE REPUBLICANS SAYING DON'T
LET THEM IN, AND EVEN DEMOCRATS
JOINING IN AND SAYING HOLD OFF
ON ANY MORE SYRIA OR IRAQI
ON ANY MORE SYRIA
OR IRAQI REFUGEES.
REFUGEES. >> I THINK
IT'S APPALLING.
>> I THINK IT'S APPALLING. THE
IDEA WE'RE DOING NATIONAL OR
THE IDEA WE'RE DOING NATIONAL OR
RELIGIOUS PROFILING IS WRONG.
THE REFUGEES ARE THE LEAST
LIKE WAYLY TO GET IN HERE.
THE PERPETRATORS WERE FROM
THE PERPETRATORS WERE
FROM BELGIUM AND FRANCE.
BELGIUM AND FRANCE. ARE WE
GOING TO STOP THE FLEMISH
ARE WE GOING TO STOP THE
FLEMISH FROM COMING IN?
FROM COMING IN? IT'S
NOT A CAREFULLY
IT'S NOT A CAREFULLY
THOUGHT-THROUGH REACTION.
THPROCE ESS WE ADD TO GET PEOPLE
IN THIS COUNTRY THROUGH REFUGEE,
IT TAKES A LONG TIME, IT'S
PROBABLY THE HARDEST WAY TO GET
PROBABLY THE HARDEST
WAY TO GET IN.
IN. THIS IS JUST A
NATIVE REACTION
THIS IS JUST A NATIVE REACTION
THAT HAS BEEN AN UNPLEASANT ONE.
THAT HAS BEEN AN UNPLEASANT
ONE. >> Woodruff: WE HAD A
>> Woodruff: WE HAD A
DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN ON THE
PROGRAM WHO SAID WE'RE ALL
GETTING PHONE CALLS ABOUT THIS,
THE PUBLIC IS CONCERNED.
THE PUBLIC IS CONCERNED. >> I
THINK FEAR OF LEADERSHIP ON
>> I THINK FEAR OF LEADERSHIP ON
CAPITOL HILL -- IT'S THE FAILURE
OF LEADERSHIP ON CAPITOL HILL.
PAUL RYAN IS TWO RUN RESPONSIBLE
VOICE, HE PLEDGED A REGULAR
ORDER, WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
HEARINGS AND DO THIS THING.
IT HAPPENED LAST WEEKEND.
WEDNESDAY THEY GET A VOTE ON THE
WEDNESDAY THEY GET A
VOTE ON THE FLOOR.
FLOOR. THIS IS THE
TIME TO CONSIDER.
THIS IS THE TIME TO CONSIDER.
JUDY, THIS IS A NATION OF
IMMIGRANTS WHO HATES FOREIGNERS?
THIS IS A COUNTRY WHO SAYS WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE A RELIGIOUS TEST?
HOW'S IT SUPPOSED TO BE THE
ORGANIZING PROPAGANDA MINISTER
ORGANIZING PROPAGANDA
MINISTER OF I.S.I.S.?
OF I.S.I.S.? IT SAYS LET
ME TELL YOU WHAT THE
IT SAYS LET ME TELL YOU WHAT THE
UNITED STATES SAYS, IF YOU'RE
UNITED STATES SAYS, IF
YOU'RE CHRISTIANS, COME IN.
CHRISTIANS, COME IN.
THERE ARE NO CHRISTIAN
TERRORISTS.
TERRORISTS. HAVE THEY
MET THE KU KLUX KLAN?
HAVE THEY MET THE KU KLUX KLAN?
IT'S NOT RESTRICTED TO ONE
IT'S NOT RESTRICTED
TO ONE FAITH.
FAITH. IT'S A
TERRIBLE,ERR TIBLE GROUP
IT'S A TERRIBLE,ERR
TIBLE GROUP OF PEOPLE.
OF PEOPLE. THEY ARE
HATEFUL, THEY ARE JUST
THEY ARE HATEFUL, THEY
ARE JUST VILLAINS.
VILLAINS. BUT, I MEAN,
THIS IS NOT LIMITED
BUT, I MEAN, THIS IS NOT
LIMITED TO ONE FAITH.
TO ONE FAITH. IT'S
ONE TO HAVE THE MOST
IT'S ONE TO HAVE THE MOST
UNSERIOUS AND IRRESPONSIBLE
ATTITUDES IN THIS DEBATE IS
ATTITUDES IN THIS DEBATE
IS ABOUT THE REFUGEES.
ABOUT THE REFUGEES. >>
Woodruff: WE'LL TALK ABOUT
>> Woodruff: WE'LL TALK
ABOUT IT MORE NEXT WEEK.
IT MORE NEXT WEEK. MARK
SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS,
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID
BROOKS, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WHAT HAPPENS
WHEN YOU TAKE A LOOK AT AMERICA
WHEN YOU TAKE A LOOK AT
AMERICA BEFORE AND AFTER THE
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
REVOLUTIONARY WAR, AND THROW IN
REVOLUTIONARY WAR, AND THROW
IN HIP-HOP AND DANCE?
HIP-HOP AND DANCE? JUST THE
BIGGEST BOX OFFICE DRAW
JUST THE BIGGEST BOX OFFICE
DRAW IN NEW YORK CITY!
IN NEW YORK CITY! JEFFREY
BROWN HAS THE STORY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> THE HOTTEST TICKET ON
>> THE HOTTEST
TICKET ON BROADWAY.
BROADWAY. "HAMILTON"
A HIP-HOP MUSICAL
"HAMILTON" A HIP-HOP MUSICAL
TELLS US OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
AN AMBITIOUS REBEL, A FOUNDERING
FATHER WHO NEVER GOT THE
RECOGNITION HE DESERVED.
RECOGNITION HE DESERVED. >>
IT'S A CONCEPT ALBUM ABOUT
>> IT'S A CONCEPT ALBUM ABOUT
TREASURE SECRETARY ALEXANDER
HAMILTON WHO EMBODIES HIP-HOP.
>> THE STAR PERFORMED AN EARLY
VERSION OF ONE OF THE PLAY'S
SONGS AT THE WHITE HOUSE IN
SONGS AT THE WHITE
HOUSE IN 2009.
2009. I WAS THE SON OF THE
I WAS THE SON
OF THE SCOTSMAN
SCOTSMAN DROPPED
IN THE MIDDLE
DROPPED IN THE MIDDLE
IN THE CARIBBEAN
IN THE CARIBBEAN TO
BE A HERO AND A SCHOLAR
TO BE A HERO AND A SCHOLAR
>> WHEN WE TALKED RECENTLY HE
TOLD ME HOW HAMILTON'S LIFE WAS
TOLD ME HOW HAMILTON'S LIFE
WAS ABOUT SO MUCH MORE.
ABOUT SO MUCH MORE. >> IF
I TELL HAMILTON'S STORY I
>> IF I TELL HAMILTON'S STORY I
TELL THE STORY OF THE FORMING OF
TELL THE STORY OF THE
FORMING OF OUR COUNTRY.
OUR COUNTRY. THAT WAS
A JOYOUS EXPERIENCE.
THAT WAS A JOYOUS EXPERIENCE. I
THINK THAT'S THE SECRET SAUCE
I THINK THAT'S THE SECRET
SAUCE IN THE SCORE.
IN THE SCORE. I WAS
LEARNING THIS STUFF AS I
I WAS LEARNING THIS STUFF AS I
WAS RESEARCHING IT TO WRITE THE
WAS RESEARCHING IT TO
WRITE THE SHOW IS.
SHOW IS. I KNEW THE
BROUGHT-OUT LINES
I KNEW THE BROUGHT-OUT
LINES EVERYONE KNOWS.
EVERYONE KNOWS. HE WAS
UNATTENDED, DIED IN A
HE WAS UNATTENDED,
DIED IN A DUEL.
DUEL. PRETTY MUCH ALL I KNOW.
PRETTY MUCH ALL I KNOW. >>
WERE YOU THINKING IN THE
>> WERE YOU THINKING IN THE
BEGINNING THE LARGERSTOR Y WOULD
BEGINNING THE LARGERSTOR
Y WOULD EMERGE?
EMERGE? >> I KNEW THAT
READING-- READING
>> I KNEW THAT READING-- READING
RON CHERNOW'S BIOGRAPHY OF HIS
LIFE WAS LIKE A DICKENS NOVEL--
SUCH HUMBLE BEGINNINGS TO SUCH
SUCH HUMBLE BEGINNINGS TO
SUCH INCREDIBLE HEHROUGHOUT
INCREDIBLE HEHROUGHOUT THAT,
YOU KNOW, I ALWAYS TELL
THAT, YOU KNOW, I ALWAYS TELL
PEOPLE I FEEL LIKE I'M A
MOSQUITO THAT HIT AN ARTERY.
LIKE THERE'S SO MUCH HERE.
LIKE THERE'S SO MUCH
HERE. >> Brown: YEAH.
>> Brown: YEAH. >> HOW AM
I GOING TO GET IT ALL?
>> HOW AM I GOING TO GET IT
ALL? >> Brown: STORYWISE...
>> Brown: STORYWISE...
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. >> WHAT
I'M ALWAYS ON THE HUNT
>> WHAT I'M ALWAYS ON THE HUNT
FOR WHEN I'M WRITING SONG ARE
DETAILS AND REALLY ATTACKING
EVERY MOMENT IN THE MOST
ORIGINAL WAY AND THEATRICALLY-
COMPELLING WAY POSSIBLE.
COMPELLING WAY POSSIBLE. SO
OUR MANTRA-- AND WHEN I SAY
SO OUR MANTRA-- AND WHEN I SAY
>> IS THE POLITICAL ALWAYS HAS
>> IS THE POLITICAL ALWAYS
HAS TO BE PERSONAL.
TO BE PERSONAL. SO IF
YOU'RE GOING TO WRITE A
SO IF YOU'RE GOING TO WRITE A
SONG ABOUT THE COMPROMISE THAT
LED TO HAMILTON TRADING HIS VOTE
LED TO HAMILTON TRADING HIS
VOTE FOR THE DEBT PLAN FOR THE
FOR THE DEBT PLAN FOR THE
CAPITAL OF THE U.S. BEING DOWN
HERE IN THE NEWLY-FORMED D.C.,
WELL THAT'S EASY TO SAY IN A
SENTENCE, BUT LET'S TELL IT FROM
THE PERSPECTIVE OF AARON BURR,
WHO WASN'T IN THE ROOM.
WHO WASN'T IN THE ROOM. >>
AND IS DESPERATELY WANTS TO
>> AND IS DESPERATELY
WANTS TO BE IN THAT ROOM.
BE IN THAT ROOM. AND
SUDDENLY, WE CAN GET AWAY
AND SUDDENLY, WE CAN GET AWAY
WITH ANYTHING 'CAUSE WE'VE GOT
WITH ANYTHING 'CAUSE WE'VE
GOT DRAMATIC TENSION.
DRAMATIC TENSION.
I WANT TO BE IN THAT ROOM
THE KIND OF LIFE HE KNEW.
THE KIND OF LIFE
HE KNEW. (SINGING)
(SINGING) >> HAMILTON
IS SET SEVERAL
>> HAMILTON IS SET SEVERAL
HUNDRED YEARS EARLIER BUT
MIRANDA FOUND A SIMILAR
MIRANDA FOUND A
SIMILAR CONNECTION.
CONNECTION. >> I WOULD
ARGUE THAT HAMILTON
>> I WOULD ARGUE THAT HAMILTON
FEELS TWICE AS AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL
FEELS TWICE AS
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL THAN THE
THAN THE >> WELL, I
WOULD-- I WOULD ARGUE
>> WELL, I WOULD-- I WOULD ARGUE
"HAMILTON" FEELS TWICE AS
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL AS "IN THE
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL AS "IN
THE HEIGHTS" DOES.
HEIGHTS" DOES. >> Brown: REALLY?
>> Brown: REALLY? >> YEAH,
ABSOLUTELY, ESPECIALLY-
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY, ESPECIALLY-
- I ACTUALLY THINK WE KIND OF
DOUBLE DOWN ON THE THEMES OF "IN
THE HEIGHTS," AND, SORT OF, BLOW
THE HEIGHTS," AND, SORT OF,
BLOW THEM UP TO A GRAND SCOPE.
THEM UP TO A GRAND SCOPE.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO TELL THE
WE'RE NOT GOING TO TELL
THE STORY OF AN IMMIGRANT
STORY OF AN IMMIGRANT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
NEIGHBORHOOD. WE'RE GOING
TO TELL THE STORY OF
WE'RE GOING TO TELL THE STORY OF
THE FIRST AMERICAN IMMIGRANT AND
THE FORMATION OF OUR COUNTRY.
AND SO, THAINT SENSE, IT FELT
AND SO, THAINT SENSE, IT
FELT INTENSELY PERSONAL.
INTENSELY PERSONAL. IT'S NOT
THE STORY OF PEOPLE WHO
IT'S NOT THE STORY OF PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN HERE FOR GENERATIONS,
BUT WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO LAND
BUT WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO
LAND HERE AND MAKE YOUR WAY.
HERE AND MAKE YOUR WAY. >>
Brown: AND THE LANGUAGE, THE
>> Brown: AND THE LANGUAGE,
THE RHYTHMS OF HIP-HOP.
RHYTHMS OF HIP-HOP. >>
IT'S THE BEST FORM FOR
>> IT'S THE BEST FORM FOR
HAMILTON, AND WHEN YOU
EXTRAPOLATE FROM HIM, IT'S A
WONDERFUL LANGUAGE FOR OUR
WONDERFUL LANGUAGE
FOR OUR REVOLUTION.
REVOLUTION. WE NEED A
REVOLUTIONARY LANGUAGE
WE NEED A REVOLUTIONARY LANGUAGE
TO DESCRIBE A REVOLUTION.
TO DESCRIBE A REVOLUTION. >>
Brown: YOU MEAN HUNDREDS OF
>> Brown: YOU MEAN
HUNDREDS OF YEARS LATER?
YEARS LATER? >> SEPARATED
BY OCEANS FROM
>> SEPARATED BY OCEANS FROM
BRITAIN, SO THIS WAS NOT A FIRST
BRITAIN, SO THIS WAS
NOT A FIRST FIGHT.
FIGHT. THIS WAS A
WAR OF IDEAS, IN A
THIS WAS A WAR OF
IDEAS, IN A SENSE.
SENSE. NEEWEDED NOT ONLY GREAT
NEEWEDED NOT ONLY GREAT FIGHTERS
BUT ALSO GREAT THINKERS
FIGHTERS BUT ALSO GREAT THINKERS
TO NAVIGATE US FROM REBELLION TO
TO NAVIGATE US FROM REBELLION
TO FORGING A NEW NATION.
FORGING A NEW NATION. SO
HIP-HOP IS UNIQUELY SUITED TO
SO HIP-HOP IS UNIQUELY
SUITED TO R MEASURE THAN ANY
R MEASURE THAN ANY
OTHER MUSICAL FORM.
OTHER MUSICAL FORM. >>
Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE-- WHAT
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE--
WHAT ABOUT THE CASTING OF THE
ABOUT THE CASTING OF THE
FOUNDING FATHERS AS A LATINO, AS
FOUNDING FATHERS AS
A LATINO, AS BLACK.
BLACK. IS THAT AN
IMPORTANT PART OF
IS THAT AN IMPORTANT PART OF
THIS TO YOU? >> I THINK SO.
>> I THINK SO. I THINK
ONE OF OUR OVERARCHING
I THINK ONE OF OUR OVERARCHING
GOALS OF THIS SHOW-- WITH ANY
SHOW-- IS YOU WANT TO ELIMINATE
ANY DISTANCE BETWEEN YOUR
AUDIENCE AND YOUR STORY.
AUDIENCE AND YOUR STORY. AND,
SO LET'S NOT PRETEND THIS
AND, SO LET'S NOT PRETEND
THIS IS A TEXTBOOK.
IS A TEXTBOOK. LET'S
MAKE THE FOUNDERS OF OUR
LET'S MAKE THE FOUNDERS OF OUR
COUNTRY LOOK LIKE WHAT OUR
COUNTRY LOOKS LIKE NOW.
THIS IS WHAT OUR...TUME
EPIC WITH A DISTANCE.
>> CORRECT.
>> CORRECT. CORRECT.
CORRECT. AND THIS
IS WHAT OUR COUNTRY
AND THIS IS WHAT OUR
COUNTRY LOOKS LIKE NOW.
LOOKS LIKE NOW. IT LOOKS
LIKE, YOU KNOW, WE ARE-
IT LOOKS LIKE, YOU KNOW, WE ARE-
- WE ARE EVERY SHADE AND EVERY
- WE ARE EVERY SHADE
AND EVERY COLOR.
COLOR. AND IT ALSO
COMES ORGANICALLY
AND IT ALSO COMES ORGANICALLY
OUT OF THE MUSIC.
OUT OF THE MUSIC. THIS IS
HIP-HOP AND R&B MUSIC.
THIS IS HIP-HOP AND R&B MUSIC.
THESE ARE THE BEST PEOPLE TO
THESE ARE THE BEST PEOPLE
TO SING THIS TYPE OF MUSIC.
SING THIS TYPE OF MUSIC.
IN THESE DAYS, MIRANDA IS
HIMSELF A NEW KIND OF ROCK STAR.
WE JOINED HIM IN WASHINGTON AS
HE RECEIVED AN INGENUITY AWARD
FROM THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
AND GAVE A TALK TO AN ADORING
AND GAVE A TALK TO
AN ADORING AUDIENCE.
AUDIENCE. SKID HIM
ABOUT THE USE OF THE
SKID HIM ABOUT THE USE OF THE
WORD I THINK KNEW THETY TO
DESCRIBE HIS WORK AND THAT
BROCKET ON A CHARACTERISTIC RIF
ON HOW HE DEVELOPS HIS OWN WORD
ON HOW HE DEVELOPS
HIS OWN WORD PLAY.
PLAY. >> I REMEMBER
THERE IS A LYRIC
>> I REMEMBER THERE IS A LYRIC
IN OUR SHOW WHERE LAFAYETTE SAYS
I THINK KNEWTIVE AND FLUID IN
I THINK KNEWTIVE AND
FLUID IN FRENCH.
FRENCH. AND I REMEMBER
A DEBATE WITH A
AND I REMEMBER A DEBATE WITH A
COLLABORATOR BECAUSE I HE SAID
THAT'S NOT A WORD, INGENUITIVE
THAT'S NOT A WORD, INGENUITIVE A
A AND WE LOOKED IT UP, AND IT IS
AND WE LOOKED IT UP, AND IT
IS AN ARCHAIC CONJUGATION OF
AN ARCHAIC CONJUGATION
OF "INGENUITY."
"INGENUITY." AND I WAS RIGHT.
AND I WAS RIGHT. I DON'T
KNOW WHY I KNEW THAT
I DON'T KNOW WHY I KNEW THAT
WORD AND OTHER PEOPLE DIDN'T,
WORD AND OTHER
PEOPLE DIDN'T, BUT.
BUT. >> Brown: AND
THEREFORE, YOU USE
>> Brown: AND
THEREFORE, YOU USE IT.
IT. >> AND THEREFORE, WE USE IT.
>> AND THEREFORE, WE USE IT. >>
Brown: YEAH, BUT YOU CAN MAKE
>> Brown: YEAH, BUT YOU CAN
MAKE UP WORDS IF YOU WANT.
UP WORDS IF YOU WANT. CAN'T YOU?
CAN'T YOU? >> WELL
SHAKESPEARE DID, AND IT
>> WELL SHAKESPEARE DID, AND IT
WORKED OUT PRETTY GREAT FOR HIM.
>> WRITING STORIES AND TELLING
STORIES, IS THERE A HIERARCHY?
WHAT'S MOST IMPORTANT FOR YOU?
>> THE MOST IMPORTANT THING FOR
ME IS MEETING THE EXPECTATIONS
ME IS MEETING THE
EXPECTATIONS EVERY NIGHT.
EVERY NIGHT. YOU KNOW,
WE'RE NOT FILM ACTORS
YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT FILM
ACTORS IN THAT SHOW.
IN THAT SHOW. IT'S NOT
LIKE YOU GET ONCE ON
IT'S NOT LIKE YOU GET ONCE
ON CAMERA AND WE'RE DONE.
CAMERA AND WE'RE DONE. YOU
HAVE TO MAKE THE EXPERIENCE
YOU HAVE TO MAKE THE EXPERIENCE
HAPPEN FOR THE AUDIENCE THAT I'M
GOING TO SEE TONIGHT AFTER I GET
ON THE PLANE, FOR THE DIFFERENT
AUDIENCE THAT I SAW LAST NIGHT.
>> YOU SAID YOU THINK TO
YOURSELF WHAT'S THE THING THAT'S
NOT IN THE WORLD THAT SHOULD BE
NOT IN THE WORLD THAT
SHOULD BE IN THE WORLD.
IN THE WORLD. THAT'S
A BIG IDEA, RIGHT?
THAT'S A BIG IDEA,
RIGHT? >> Brown: RIGHT?
>> Brown: RIGHT? I
MEAN YOU FEEL THAT?
I MEAN YOU FEEL THAT? LIKE
WHAT'S MISSING IN OUR
LIKE WHAT'S MISSING
IN OUR WORLD?
WORLD? >> ABSOLUTELY, I MEAN--
>> ABSOLUTELY, I MEAN-- AND
IT GOES BACK TO I HOPE THAT
AND IT GOES BACK TO I HOPE
THAT WHAT I CAN CONTRIBUTE IS
WHAT I CAN CONTRIBUTE IS
SOMETHING THAT HASN'T BEEN SEEN
SOMETHING THAT HASN'T
BEEN SEEN BEFORE.
BEFORE. YOU KNOW, "IN
THE HEIGHTS," VERY
YOU KNOW, "IN THE HEIGHTS," VERY
MUCH, CAME OUT OF ME WANTING A
CAREER IN MUSICAL THEATER, BUT
THERE'S ONLY ABOUT THREE GREAT
ROL FORES LATINO MEN IN MUSICAL
ROL FORES LATINO MEN
IN MUSICAL THEATER.
THEATER. >> Brown: YEAH.
>> Brown: YEAH. >> YOU'RE
BERNARDO, YOU'RE PAUL
>> YOU'RE BERNARDO, YOU'RE PAUL
OF "A CHORUS LINE" OR, IF YOU
CAN REALLY SING, YOU'RE "MAN OF
CAN REALLY SING, YOU'RE
"MAN OF LA MANCHA."
LA MANCHA." I CAN'T
SING WELL ENOUGH TO BE
I CAN'T SING WELL ENOUGH TO
BE IN "MAN OF LA MANCHA."
IN "MAN OF LA MANCHA." >>
Brown: SO YOU GET TWO-OUT-OF-
>> Brown: SO YOU GET
TWO-OUT-OF- THREE.
THREE. >> SO I WROTE-- I WROTE
>> SO I WROTE-- I WROTE
SOMETHING THAT HAD SO MANY PARTS
FOR LATINOS BECAUSE I KNEW THERE
FOR LATINOS BECAUSE I KNEW
THERE WAS A VOID THERE.
WAS A VOID THERE. I KNEW
IT BECAUSE I WAS GOING
I KNEW IT BECAUSE I WAS GOING
INTO THAT WORLD, AND I WAS
INTO THAT WORLD,
AND I WAS SCARED.
SCARED. >> Brown:
BUT IT'S ALSO A BIG
>> Brown: BUT IT'S ALSO A BIG
IDEA TO THINK THAT YOU CAN FILL
IDEA TO THINK THAT YOU
CAN FILL A VACUUM.
A VACUUM. IT'S NOT ABOUT
THE CONFIDENCE TO
IT'S NOT ABOUT THE CONFIDENCE TO
LIKE "HELLO WORLD, HERE'S THIS
IDEA THAT NEVER EXISTED."
IDEA THAT NEVER EXISTED." IT'S
THIS IS MY BRAIN AND UNLESS
IT'S THIS IS MY BRAIN AND UNLESS
I EXPRESS IT, IT'S ONLY GOING TO
I EXPRESS IT, IT'S ONLY
GOING TO STAY IN MY BRAIN.
STAY IN MY BRAIN. IT'S
MORE ABOUT PERSONAL
IT'S MORE ABOUT PERSONAL
EXPRESSION THAN IMPOSING YOUR
EXPRESSION THAN IMPOSING
YOUR WILL ON THE WORLD.
WILL ON THE WORLD. IT'S
MORE ABOUT, YOU KNOW, IF I
IT'S MORE ABOUT, YOU KNOW, IF I
DON'T GET THIS IDEA OUT OF MY
HEAD AND ON TO PAPER, IT DIES
HEAD AND ON TO PAPER,
IT DIES WITH ME.
WITH ME. >> Brown: ALL
RIGHT, LIN-MANUEL
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, LIN-MANUEL
MIRANDA, THANKS SO MUCH.
MIRANDA, THANKS SO
MUCH. >> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY
TONIGHT, OUR NEWSHOUR "SHARES"--
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
THAT MIGHT BE OF
INTEREST TO YOU, TOO.
YOU, TOO. A SURE SIGN
THE HOLIDAYS ARE NOT
A SURE SIGN THE HOLIDAYS ARE NOT
FAR WAY: THE ARRIVAL OF THE U.S.
FAR WAY: THE ARRIVAL OF THE
U.S. CAPITOL CHRISTMAS TREE.
CAPITOL CHRISTMAS TREE.
THIS YEAR'S SPRUCE MADE A
4,000-MILE JOURNEY, WHICH
INCLUDED A BOAT RIDE, ALL THE
WAY FROM THE CHUGACH NATIONAL
WAY FROM THE CHUGACH
NATIONAL FOREST IN ALASKA.
FOREST IN ALASKA. THE
TREE WILL BE LIT IN A
THE TREE WILL BE LIT IN A
CEREMONY EARLY NEXT MONTH.
TODAY, WE CAUGHT UP WITH SOME OF
THE PEOPLE WHO MADE IT POSSIBLE.
>> SO WE HAVE BEEN PROVIDING THE
TREE FOR 45 YEARS AND THIS IS
THE FIRST TIME IT'S COME FROM
THE FIRST TIME IT'S
COME FROM ALASKA.
ALASKA. THE REASON
FOR THAT IS IT'S
THE REASON FOR THAT IS
IT'S QUITE A JOURNEY.
QUITE A JOURNEY. >>
I'M JOHN SHANK FROM
>> I'M JOHN SHANK FROM
FAIRBANKS, ALASKA.
FAIRBANKS, ALASKA. I HAULED
THE TREE FROM SEWARD
I HAULED THE TREE FROM SEWARD
AND BROUGHT IT HERE FROM
WASHINGTON, D.C. AND IT IS THE
WASHINGTON, D.C. AND IT
IS THE PEOPLE'S TREE.
PEOPLE'S TREE. IT'S A
ONCE IN A LIFETIME DEAL,
IT'S A ONCE IN A LIFETIME DEAL,
ESPECIALLY LIKE, THIS 80 FOOD
LONG, IN THE TRAILER ITSELF.
A LOT OF OBSTACLES, A LONG
JOURNEY BUT A GREAT ONE.
JOURNEY BUT A GREAT ONE. >> I
WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR FINDING
>> I WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR FINDING
CANDIDATE TREES LAST OCTOBER.
I FOUND SIX TREES TOTAL.
I FOUND SIX TREES TOTAL. THIS
IS THE FIRST ONE I FOUND.
THIS IS THE FIRST ONE I FOUND. I
NEVER WOULD HAVE SEEN IT IF I
I NEVER WOULD HAVE SEEN IT IF I
DIDN'T ACTUALLY GET OFF THE ROAD
AND HIKE AROUND IN THE WOODS.
AND HIKE AROUND IN THE WOODS. I
SAW THIS ONE AND I JUST -- I
I SAW THIS ONE AND I JUST --
I MEAN, IT WAS AN IMMEDIATE
MEAN, IT WAS AN IMMEDIATE
REACTION LIKE, YEAH, THIS IS IT.
>> IT'S THE FIRST BLUE SPRUCE
EVER TO GRACE THE LAWN OF THE
CAPITOL IN ITS 45 YEAR HISTORY.
IT'S ABOUT 90 YEARS OLD.
IT'S VERY INSPIRING.
ALASKANS ARE CHEERING US FOR
THIS OPPORTUNITY TO REPRESENT
ALASKA AT THE CAPITOL.
ALASKA AT THE CAPITOL. >>
Woodruff: CAN'T WAIT TO SEE
>> Woodruff: CAN'T WAIT TO
SEE IT VERTICAL AND LIT UP.
IT VERTICAL AND LIT UP. >>
Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: WE CONTINUE OUR SERIES
FEATURING SYRIAN ARTISTS WHO
HAVE FLED THEIR COUNTRY-- TODAY,
A FILMMAKER'S TAKE ON THE
PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF THE
PSYCHOLOGICAL
EFFECTS OF THE WAR.
WAR. THE MINUTE-LONG
VIDEO WAS SHOT
THE MINUTE-LONG VIDEO WAS
SHOT IN A UNIQUE, STOP-ACTION
IN A UNIQUE, STOP-ACTION
SEQUENCE, AND YOU CAN WATCH IT
SEQUENCE, AND YOU CAN WATCH
IT ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ON OUR HOME PAGE. ALL THAT
AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, www.pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS
FROM OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES. GWEN
IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH
AIRS LATER TONIGHT.
LATER TONIGHT. HERE'S A PREVIEW:
HERE'S A PREVIEW: >>
Ifill: AFTER A WEEK OF HOT
>> Ifill: AFTER A WEEK OF HOT
POLITICAL RHETORIC, TERRORISM
WORRIES GONE GLOBAL, AND-- MORE
THAN ANYTHING ELSE-- UNANSWERED
QUESTIONS, WE'LL EXPLORE THE
STATE OF OUR DEBATES OVER SAFETY
STATE OF OUR DEBATES OVER
SAFETY AND OVER LIBERTY.
AND OVER LIBERTY. TONIGHT
ON WASHINGTON WEEK.
TONIGHT ON WASHINGTON
WEEK. JUDY?
JUDY? >> Woodruff:
>> Woodruff: THAT'S
TOMORROW NIGHT ON PBS
THAT'S TOMORROW NIGHT ON
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND. AND WE'LL
BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
AND WE'LL BE BACK,
RIGHT HERE, ON MONDAY.
ON MONDAY. THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT. I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.